Skip to main content
Text only Sign in
Search
WMG
Our People
Profile
Dr Ganna Pogrebna
  Title
Associate Professor
Contact
WMG
University of Warwick
Coventry
CV4 7AL T:   024 7615 0230
E:   G.Pogrebna@warwick.ac.uk
W:   Service Systems Group
Research Interests
Dr Ganna Pogrebna is Associate Professor of Decision Science and Service Systems. Ganna is interested in analysing individual and group decision-making under risk and uncertainty (ambiguity) using laboratory experiments, field experiments and non-experimental data. She studies how decision-makers reveal their preferences, learn, co-ordinate and make trade-offs in static and dynamic risk and uncertain (ambiguous) environments with policy applications to innovation, leadership, finance and healthcare.
Ganna's work aims to develop quantitative models capable of describing and predicting individual and group behaviour in static and dynamic situations in the face of risk and uncertainty (ambiguity). She is particularly interested in investigating the impact of imprecision and noise on decision-making.
Ganna contributes her expertise as a behavioural scientist/decision theorist to the projects and activities of Service Systems Group where her work concentrates on behavioural aspects of dealing with informational asymmetries as well as incomplete information problems which arise from supply chain structures in communication between product/service providers and consumers.

Biography
Dr Ganna Pogrebna joined WMG in November 2013. Ganna studied Economics in the University of Missouri, Kansas City (US) and the University of Innsbruck (Austria). She holds a PhD in Economics and Social Sciences. Ganna has worked as a postdoctoral research fellow in the University of Innsbruck (Austria), the University of Bonn (Germany), Humboldt-Universitat zu Berlin (Germany), Columbia University in New York (USA) and the University of Warwick (UK). She also worked as a Research Assistant Professor and Research Senior Lecturer in the University of Sheffield.
In 2011 Ganna received an Early Career Leverhulme Fellowship to work on a project entitled 'Pregnancy, Parenting and Risk Attitudes' which runs until the end of December 2013. Many decision-making situations involve a degree of risk and uncertainty. The way people make choices in these situations relates to their risk attitudes. An important group that has received little attention in the economic literature is parents. Yet parents constitute a significant fraction of the population and make important decisions with regard to health, education, investment, insurance, finance and other domains. This project applies an innovative interdisciplinary approach to study whether the event of becoming a parent changes behaviour under risk and uncertainty. Decisions of future and current parents are studied under financial, social, health, safety, and other risks. All recent news about Ganna's Leverhulme project as well as other research projects can be found on her personal website: www.gannapogrebna.com. Please, note that the most recent list of publications is not always available from this website. A complete list is available from: www.gannapogrebna.com/publications/
Research Projects
View Current Projects        View All Projects
[ Update your user profile on Ideate https://warwick.tribalhosted.co.uk ]
WMG, International Manufacturing Centre, University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL, United Kingdom
Who we are
Our Chair
Career opportunities
Contact us
Staff intranet
WMG health and safety
What we do
Student experience videos
Research capability videos
Outreach programmes
Brochures
Twitter
Facebook
YouTube
iTunes U
LinkedIn
Page contact: Peter Lever
Last revised: Tue 8 Nov 2016
Powered by Sitebuilder © MMXVII Terms Privacy Cookies Accessibility