Accessible Navigation
Navigation
Global UM Navigation
UM Events
Main Content
Footer
Toggle Global Navigation
Additional Navigation
A to Z
my
Search UM
Search
Management and Marketing
Search Management and Marketing
Search Management and Marketing
Site Navigation
Home
Dean's Office
Degrees & Programs
Students
Faculty & Staff
Competitions
Giving
News & Events
You are here:
UM Academics School of Business Administration Management and Marketing Department Faculty and Staff
Management and Marketing
← Show Additional Navigation
Management and Marketing
Management and Marketing Majors
Management and Marketing Certificates
Department Faculty and Staff
Advisory Board
Faculty and Staff
Fengru Li
Associate Professor
Contact
Office: GBB 304
Phone: 243-2727
Email: fengru.li@business.umt.edu
← Back To Directory
Personal Summary
Dr. Li's first career, eight years, was in international marketing and sales for China National Textiles Import & Export Corp., in Beijing, China before relocating to Seattle, Washington to be in charge of Asian markets exportation for U.S. businesses.   She chose college teaching after eight years in the corporate world.  She joined the University of Montana in 1997. She has taught at Nankai Univ. Tianjin, China; University of Washington in Seattle, Hong Kong Baptist University; China Youth University of Political Sciences in Beijing, and Guizhou University of Finance and Economics in Guizhou Province, China. 
Education
1996, Ph.D. University of Washington (Seattle);
1989, M.A. University of Montana;
1990, M.P.A, University of Montana;
1982, B.A. Nankai University, Tianjin, China
International Experience
SoBA 2013 Summer Faculty-led China
4 Metropolitan Cities: Beijing, Chengdu, Guizhou and Shanghai
China-U.S. Business & Negotiations: BMGT493 or MBA 645 - 3 credit (Spring)
May 21- June 7, 2013
  This faculty-led, intensive 18-day, 4-city international business program is taught by Dr. Fengru Li of SoBA. The course is titled China-U.S. Business & Negotiations, to be registered for as a 3-credit Spring 2013 course under MGMT493, MBA645.
An additional course fee, $2,500, covers UM’s Medical Emergency Insurance, charter buses for all business fieldtrips, teaching materials, airport pick-ups, hotels, all breakfasts, plus some lunches and dinners. The fee does NOT cover international China domestic airfare. SoBA covers your $180-$200 visa fee.
Prior to the trip, Dr. Li will teach a 10-hour SoBA course Feb.1-2.
In classes held in China, you conduct international business negotiations with your Chinese counterparts from China Youth University of Political Sciences (CYU) in Beijing and Guizhou University of Finance & Economics (GUFE) in Guizhou Province.
For business trips, Dr. Li and U.S. expats will conduct seminars on China-U.S. business and trade at The Chengdu High Tech Park, located in the Sichuan Province, and in Shanghai.  
On field trips in the Guizhou Province, you team up with GUFE students to carry out interviews with Chinese businesses on China-U.S. trade issues.
  Interested students contact SoBA International Program Director, Dr. Shooshtari at nader.shooshtari@business.umt.edu 
Or Dr. Li at fengru.li@business.umt.edu
  Join our discussion on Facebook at http://www.facebook.com/groups/382846671785412/ 
        About Us
Ethics
Faculty & Staff
Dean's Office
Alumni & Giving
  News & Events
Competitions
Undergraduate Degrees
Graduate Degrees
  Accounting & Finance Dept
MIS Department
Management & Marketing Dept
  AACSB Accreditation
Student Success Center
Advising
Career Development
Internships
Scholarships
  Global Studies
Student Organizations
my.umt.edu
Learn More
about what we offer
Apply Now
Visit Us in Missoula
School of Business Administration • #MontanaMeansBusiness
Gallagher Business Building • 32 Campus Drive • Missoula, MT 59812 • Phone: (406) 243-4831 • Fax: (406) 243-6925
About UM
Accessibility
Administration
Contact UM
Directory
Employment
Safety
Privacy Policy
Campus Map