Library
Students
Staff
MyLO
Contacts
Menu
Simone Bingham
Lecturer
Tasmanian School of Business & Economics
Room 325, Centenary Building, Sandy Bay Campus
+61 3 6226 2314 (phone)
Simone.Bingham@utas.edu.au
Career
Research
Publications
Funding
Simone is a lecturer with the Tasmanian School of Business and Economics. She teaches in the arrears of commercial and business law, corporate governance, regulation. Simone is undertaking her PhD with the Faculty of Law on a part time basis.  Simone's thesis explores the role and effectiveness of regulation in dog breeding.
Career summary
Qualifications
Degree Title of Thesis University Country Awarded
BComm (Hons)   University of Tasmania Australia 2004
GradCertLegPrac   University of Tasmania Australia 1991
BEc-LLB   University of Tasmania Australia 1990
Biography
Simone graduated from the University of Tasmania in 1990 with a combined Economics and Law degree. She completed the legal practice course and worked as a family/commercial /planning and probate lawyer in Hobart unit 2002. Simone joined the School of Accounting and Finance in 2002 and has been employed by that school, now part of the Tasmanian School of Business and Economics since that time.
She has won numerous teaching awards at Faculty level and been nominated for a Carrick citation for her teaching. She has taught a large number of different units for the school in commercial law, corporate governance, regulation, taxation and financial management.
Simone is currently in the fourth year, on a part time basis of her PhD with the Faculty of Law, looking at the role and effectiveness of regulation in dog breeding in Australia.
Research Themes
Simone has undertaken research in the areas of corporate governance and in the scholarship of learning and teaching. Simone's PhD topic is a cross disciplinary one,  using social legal research to consider from a regulatory studies view the effectiveness of the current regulatory framework that regulates both hobby and commercial dog breeders. She also considers the role of consumer law in assisting dog buyers who have purchased a puppy that has genetic or physical issues reducing its quality as  a companion animal.
Memberships
Professional practice
Member: State Library and Archive Trust
Committee associations
Member:  Tasmanian Canine Association
Member and Treasurer: Huon and Channel Kennel Club
Administrative expertise
Simone was a partner in the law firm Worrall Bingham and Oakley prior to becoming an academic. She was staff partner so has developed effective communication skills. She was a casual mediator with Relationships Australia for over ten years so have developed effective mediation skills.
Teaching
Commercial transactions, business law, law for managers, finance for managers, financial management, international regulation, corporate law and regulation, introduction to corporate governance, regulatory compliance and taxation
Teaching expertise
Simone has taught across approximately 10 units offered by the Faculty of Business (now TSBE) Including, commercial transactions, business law, law for managers, finance for managers, financial management, international regulation, corporate law and regulation, introduction to corporate governance, regulatory compliance and taxation.
She has successfully completed the unit – University Teaching, done as part of her Graduate Certificate in Research.
Teaching responsibility
In 2015 Simone was the unit coordinator for:
Corporate Regulation and Accountability (BFA213)
Regulatory Compliance (BFA347)
Corporate Law and Regulation (BFA726)
Connect with Simone Bingham
Find out more about Graduate Research
Contact Business and Development and Technology Transfer
HOME
FACULTIES
SPECIALIST INSTITUTES
DIVISIONS
Hobart


Launceston


Cradle Coast



Sydney



Authorised by Executive Director Research Operations
16 February, 2016
© University of Tasmania, Australia. ABN 30 764 374 782. CRICOS Provider Code 00586B
We acknowledge the palawa and pakana people upon whose lands the University of Tasmania stands