This website uses cookies. By continuing to browse this site, you agree to the use of these cookies. To continue click once at a random place on the site.
If you do not wish to accept them, you can indicate this under the cookie settings.
Go directly to:
Content
Search box
Breadcrumb
dr. S (Sanne) Boesveldt
Assistant Professor
Contact
Since the start of my PhD (2004, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, the Netherlands) I have been active in the field of olfaction. I have worked as a postdoctoral fellow at Monell Chemical Senses Center (USA), the worlds premier institute devoted to multidisciplinary research on the senses of smell and taste. I have expanded my research into eating behavior since 2010, when I started working at the division of Human Nutrition, Wageningen University, in the chair group Sensory Science and Eating Behavior. In 2011, I was awarded with a prestigious NWO-Veni grant, to investigate the behavioral and neurobiological mechanisms of odor-induced food cue reactivity. I was one of the first to demonstrate a sensory specific effect of odors on appetite, indicating that food odors may communicate information about the nutrient composition of foods.
My group focusses on understanding the role of chemosensory signals for human eating behavior, to unravel the key question of why do we (over)eat?, combining behavioral, neurobiological and physiological measurements. My main interests can be divided in three parts: Odors and appetite regulation; Sensory learning mechanisms; Chemosensory changes in clinical populations. By gaining insight into how odors can influence appetite regulation, in health and disease, we may be able to influence this, and contribute to changing current eating behavior towards healthier and more rewarding food patterns.
Continue to:
Publications
Projects
Education
Contact person for...
Personal information
Organisation Department of Agrotechnology and Food Sciences
Subdivision Human Nutrition
Post address PO Box 17
6700AA WAGENINGEN
Visitors' Address Stippeneng 4
6708WE WAGENINGEN
Telephone number +31317482111
Building/room 124/1063
Messenger number 62
Expertise Human nutrition, Neurobiology, Feeding behaviour, Flavour compounds, Neuroimaging, Sensory sciences
About Wageningen
Career
Contact
Login
en|English
Education &
Programmes
Research &
Results
Expertise &
Services
Search
Search

Home
Click to expand
Human Nutrition - dr. S (Sanne) Boesveldt
To explore the potential of nature to improve the quality of life.
About us
Education & Programmes
University
Bachelor
Master
Online education
PhD
Courses for professionals
Research & Results
Library
Health and nutrition
Climate and water
Food production
Biobased economy
Nature and landscape
Logistics and trade
Expertise & Services
Facilities
Graduate schools
Research Institutes
Chair groups
Newsroom Career Disclaimer General Terms and Conditions About Wageningen Contact
Cookie Settings