CQUni Staff Profile
Contacts
Ask CQUni
MyCQU
Library
Jobs
Students and Staff Sign In
Search Profiles
Find An Expert
Useful Links
Professor Kerry Reid-Searl
School of Nursing, Midwifery & Social Sciences
Deputy Head of Programme; Professor of Simulation
Registered Nurse, Midwife, BHlth Sc (UCQ), MClin Ed, (UNSW), PhD, MRCNA,FCN.
Contact Details
Email: k.reid-searl@cqu.edu.au
Phone: (07) 4930 9741 - Ext: 59741
Mobile Phone: 0419292957
Alternative Phone: 0749309741 - Ext:9741
Office Location
Rockhampton North
Room 1.33
Building 18
CQUniversity Rockhampton
About Me
About Me
General
Research
Expertise
Interests
Publications
Teaching
Kerry Reid-Searl has been involved in the CQUniversity undergraduate nursing program for the past 25 years. She is currently the Deputy Head of Programme as well Professor of Simulation in the School of Nursing and Midwifery. Together with her passion for nursing and nursing education, Kerry also has a strong passion about patient safety.
Her current simulation work is focused on patient safety and strategies for 'the teacher in role'. In particular, she works with silicone props and has designed a unique approach to enable students to experience humanistic simulation experiences before being exposed to practical placements.
Kerry termed the technique Mask-Ed (KRS Simulation). Mask-Ed stands for masking the educator, whilst KRS represents knowledgeable, realistic and spontaneous simulation. The technique is now gaining National and International reputation as reflected in her extensive invitations to present her work in Australia, New-Zealand, Japan, the USA and the UK. Kerry has also extended her work with puppets and has called the technique Pup-Ed (KRS Simulation).
Kerry,most enjoys working with beginning undergraduate nursing students as well higher degree students. She has been the recipient of numerous teaching awards. Kerry is the author and co-author of numerous nursing text books which are utilized by nursing students across Australian and New-Zealand. She has also be included in the Who's Who of Australian Women for the past six years.
Kerry loves working at CQUniversity and believes it is a great place filled with both supportive colleagues and friends. Importantly CQUniversity has allowed Kerry to be creative and innovative in her approach to nursing education.
Kerry's work is based in Rockhampton and she lives on the Capricorn coast . In her spare time she enjoys sea kayaking, camping, music and taking every opportunity to spent time with her adult children.






























SCHOOLS
Business and Law
Education and the Arts
Engineering and Technology
Human, Health and Social Sciences
Medical and Applied Sciences
Nursing and Midwifery
Vocational Engineering and Trades
Vocational Business and Humanities
COURSES AND UNITS
English, Study and Work Preparation
Short courses
Apprenticeships, Trades and Training
Vocational training
Undergraduate
Postgraduate
Research
Professional Development
LOCATIONS
QLD
Biloela Brisbane Bundaberg Cairns Emerald Gladstone Mackay Noosa Rockhampton Townsville Yeppoon
NSW
Sydney
SA
Adelaide
VIC
Melbourne
WA
Perth
Other
Centres, Hubs and Sites
Distance Education
CONNECT
Phone
13 27 86
From overseas +61 7 4930 9000
Connect with the VC
Give to CQUni
CQUniversity Australia acknowledges the traditional owners of the land upon which we stand.
Sitemap Copyright Disclaimer Accessibility Feedback Policy Privacy Right to Information ASQA VET Quality Framework CRICOS Provider Code: 00219C ASQA National Provider Number 40939
CQUniversity Australia is a trading name of Central Queensland University.
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Youtube
Instagram
Blogger