Research Centers
Departments
Directory
Home Directory Ralph Oliva
Search People

Personal Homepage
Ralph Oliva
Professor of Marketing , Faculty Leader, Institute for the Study of Business Markets
Department: Marketing, Institute for the Study of Business Markets
Office: 388A Business Building
Phone: 814-865-5670
Fax: 814-863-0413
E-mail: rao8@psu.edu
Member of Faculty Since: 1996

Introduction
Ralph is a Faculty Leader of the Institute for the Study of Business Markets (ISBM), and Professor of Marketing in the Smeal College of Business at The Pennsylvania State University.
Ralph was formerly Executive Director of the ISBM from 1996 to 2015. He icontiues to support the growth of ISBM as the leading academic center devoted to advancing knowledge and practice in Business-to-Business Marketing worldwide. The ISBM is supported by major industrial firms, and a network of over 250 researchers around the world.  The ISBM  is focused on the study of how business markets work, and how to better understand, create, deliver, and profitably harvest value. He is teaching in the second year of the Smeal MBA program (where he has won 7 teaching awards from Smeal MBA students trough 2016), the Smeal Executive MBA program, as well as in Exectuive Education with ISBM Member firms.
 Before joining Penn State, Ralph spent 23 years in B-to-B and Consumer Marketing at Texas Instruments. While there he established a “Virtual University” for marketing at TI, served as Vice President of Market Communications and Design for TI Worldwide, and was primary architect of www.ti.com . His responsibilities included global management of the TI brand, all of TI’s market communications, design strategy, and corporate identity. He developed the "Digital Light Projection" (or DLPTM) ingredient branding program for TI, and served on the design team for some of TI's landmark products including "Speak and Spell" and the TI-30 Calculator. Ralph has authored 15 books, served as TV spokesperson for the Application of Technology to Education, and has designed and developed several executive level courses in Business-to-Business.    

Current Research
Professor Oliva’s areas of research include B-to-B Marketing Strategy, Brand and Ingredient Brand Strategy, and Integrated Communications.
 
Expertise
Strategic Brand Management, Market Communications, B-to-B Marketing Strategy, Integrated Communications

Media Mention
Ongoing Articles,  Marketing Management Magazine

Education
Ph.D., Solid State Physics, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, 1973
M.S., Solid State Physics, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, 1973
B.S., Physics, Fordham University, 1966

Courses
MKTG 533, B-to-B Marketing
MKTG 534, Integrated Strategic Communications
MKTG 532, Strategic Brand Management
MKTG 534, Executive MBA Course in Integrated Communications and Brand Management

Site Map Intranet Office of the Dean Hiring SmealConnect Facebook YouTube Twitter iTunes U
Contact Us Copyright © 1996-2017 The Pennsylvania State University & The Smeal College of Business Privacy & Legal Statements Hotlines Accessibility