Campuses:
Chicago
Peoria
Rockford
Urbana
College of Medicine
UIC
Directory
Contact Us
Search
ABOUT
EDUCATION
RESEARCH
PATIENT CARE
DEPARTMENTS
GIVING
NEWS
OUR CLINICAL SERVICES
Home > Departments > Academic Departments > Otolaryngology > Our Clinical Services
Departments
Academic Departments
a
Otolaryngology
Our Clinical Services
back to home
Audiology & Neurotology
Referring Physicians
  To learn more about a specific service click on any of the links to the right. 
Audiology & Neurotology 
Our mission is to identify and provide treatment for individuals with hearing loss and those considered at risk. We strongly believe that the ability to hear significantly impacts the quality of life, regardless of age.  Our goal is to not just improve hearing, but to support and enhance the communication skills of hearing-impaired individuals, their family members and their friends.
Speech Pathology & Voice Care 
Our mission is to identify, assess, and treat a wide range of structural and behaviorally based communication and swallowing disorders experienced by both children and adults.   We promote awareness of the importance of vocal hygiene, the diagnosis and treatment of voice disorders, laryngeal function and the relationship between the larynx and other systemic diseases.  Our speech pathologists, certified and state licensed in speech-language pathology, are members of the patient’s health care team, providing instruction for families and patients regarding rehabilitation for communication and swallowing problems.
Head & Neck Surgery  
Our mission is to treat patients with malignant and benign tumors of the head and neck.  Because the head and neck contains many structures vital to daily functions of speech, swallowing, and breathing, the head and neck cancer patient faces many complex issues.  We are sensitive to the multiple needs of the head and neck cancer patient, each patient is seen by a team of doctors, including head and neck surgeons, medical oncologists, radiation oncologists and oromaxillofacial surgeons.
Sinus & Nasal Allergy 
Our mission is to perform state-of-the-art evaluation and treatment of nasal and sinus disorders. We offer advanced techniques to address your nasal and sinus problems such as nasal obstruction, congestion, runny nose, nasal allergies, chronic sinusitis, deviated septum, nasal deformities, nasal and sinus tumors, cerebrospinal fluid leaks, and related sinonasal disorders.
Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery 
Our mission is to strive for a "natural look" when performing any facial plastic or reconstructive surgical procedure.  Our facial plastic and reconstructive surgeons specialize in cosmetic surgery of the nose(rhinoplasty), cosmetic surgery to remove excess eyelid skin and fat(blepharoplasty), cosmetic surgery to remove wrinkles of the face or  "facelift" (rhytidectomy) as well as several other cosmetic and reconstructive surgical procedures of the head and neck.

FOR AN APPOINTMENT CALL:  866-600-CARE  (866-600-2273)

 
Copyright © 2016 University of Illinois College of Medicine all rights reserved Guest Web Editor Login
If you have questions, comments, or problems accessing this site, please E-mail the webmaster
Privacy StatementPublic Formal Grievance ProceduresHealth Care Industry Conflict of Interest Guidelines
Visit our four campus websites: ChicagoPeoriaRockfordUrbana