Resources For:
STUDENTS
ALUMNI
FACULTY
STAFF
Events
About HLS
Menu
Admissions
Academics & Clinical
Faculty & Research
Careers
Library
News
HOME FACULTY PROFILES
Faculty
Office of Academic Affairs
Faculty Directory
Faculty Bibliography
CHARLES J. OGLETREE, JR.
Jesse Climenko Professor of Law
Director, Charles Hamilton Houston Institute for Race & Justice
About
Publications
Biography
Charles Ogletree, the Harvard Law School Jesse Climenko Professor of Law, and Founding and Executive Director of the Charles Hamilton Houston Institute for Race and Justice, is a prominent legal theorist who has made an international reputation by taking a hard look at complex issues of law and by working to secure the rights guaranteed by the Constitution for everyone equally under the law. Professor Ogletree opened the offices of The Charles Hamilton Houston Institute for Race and Justice www.charleshamiltonhouston.org in September 2005 as a tribute to the legendary civil rights lawyer and mentor and teacher of such great civil rights lawyers as Thurgood Marshall and Oliver Hill. The Institute has engaged in a wide range of important educational, legal, and policy issues over the past 6 years.
Professor Ogletree is the author of several important books on race and justice. His most recent publication is a book co-edited with Professor Austin Sarat of Amherst College entitled Life without Parole: America's New Death Penalty? (NYU Press, 2012). Other publications include The Presumption of Guilt: The Arrest of Henry Louis Gates, Jr. and Race, Class, and Crime in America (Palgrave Macmillan, 2010).In November 2009, NYU Press published Professor Ogletree’s book, co-edited with Professor Austin Sarat, The Road to Abolition: The Future of Capital Punishment in the United States. Also edited with Austin Sarat, When Law Fails: Making Sense of Miscarriages of Justice and From Lynch Mobs to the Killing State: Race and the Death Penalty in America were published by NYU Press in January of 2009 and May of 2006 respectively. His historical memoir, All Deliberate Speed: Reflections on the First Half-Century of Brown v. Board of Education, was published by W.W. Norton & Company in April 2004. Professor Ogletree also co-authored Beyond the Rodney King Story: An Investigation of Police Conduct in Minority Communities (Northeastern University Press 1995).
Professor Ogletree is a native of Merced, California, where he attended public schools. Professor Ogletree earned an M.A. and B.A. (with distinction) in Political Science from Stanford University, where he was Phi Beta Kappa. He also holds a J.D. from Harvard Law School.
In 2009 Professor Ogletree was awarded the prestigious ABA Spirit of Excellence Award in recognition of his many contributions to the legal profession. In 2008, the National Law Journal named Professor Ogletree one of the 50 Most Influential Minority Lawyers in America. Every year since 2006, Professor Ogletree has been named by Ebony Magazine as one of the 100+ Most Influential Black Americans. He was presented with the Lifetime Achievement Award when he was inducted into the Hall of Fame for the National Black Law Students Association, where he served as National President from 1977-1978. Professor Ogletree also received the first ever Rosa Parks Civil Rights Award given by the City of Boston, the Hugo A. Bedau Award given by the Massachusetts Anti-Death Penalty Coalition, and Morehouse College’s Gandhi, King, Ikeda Community Builders Prize. He has also received honorary doctorates from several universities and colleges including Cambridge College, Wilberforce University, the University of Miami, the New England School of Law, Lincoln College, Tougaloo College, Mount Holyoke College, and Amherst College.
Professor Ogletree has been married to his fellow Stanford graduate, Pamela Barnes, since 1975. They are the proud parents of two children, Charles Ogletree III and Rashida Ogletree, and grandparents to granddaughters, Marquelle, Nia Mae, Jamila Ogletree, and Makayla George. The Ogletrees live in Cambridge and are members of St. Paul African Methodist Episcopal Church.
Areas of Interest
International Law
Capital Punishment
Juvenile Justice
Comparative and Foreign Law: South Africa
Criminal Law and Procedure: Criminal Defense
Race and the Law
Clinical Legal Education
Criminal Law and Procedure: Criminal Justice Administration
Race and the Law: Race and Criminal Justice
Assistant: Jonathan Donais / 617-496-2054
ABOUT
Map and Directions
Accessibility
Media Relations
HLS Bicentennial
APPLY
J.D.
LL.M.
S.J.D.
Special Programs
ACADEMICS
Academic Calendar
Course Catalog
Curriculum
Helios
ALUMNI
Giving to HLS
HLS Connect
HLSA
Reunions
ADMINISTRATION
Dean’s Welcome
Department Directory
Human Resources
ABA Standard 509
CAMPUS
Student Services
Student Organizations
Sustainability
HLS Calendar of Events
PUBLICATIONS
Faculty Publications
Student Journals
Harvard Law Today
HLS Case Studies
GENERAL
Harvard University
Jobs at HLS
Title IX Information
Emergency Information
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
News RSS Feed
Privacy Statement
Trademark Notice
Contact Us
© 2017 The President and Fellows of Harvard College.