Skip to main content
Skip to main content
FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY

Skip to main content
COLLEGE OF MUSIC
PROGRAMS
PEOPLE
ADMISSIONS
ENSEMBLES
FACILITIES
HOME CHARLES BREWER
Charles Brewer
Musicology
Professor of Historical Musicology
LON 415
cbrewer@fsu.edu
Phone 850-644-6403
Charles E. Brewer, Professor of Musicology, received the B.A. degree from S.U.N.Y. Binghamton with a Certificate in Medieval Studies, the M.A. degree from Columbia University, and the Ph.D. degree from the City University of New York. Specializing in medieval and baroque music, his research has appeared in Muzyka, Studia musicologia, Cantus planus, Musica antiqua Europa orientalis, Historical Performance, Music & Letters, The New Grove Dictionary of Opera, and other specialized publications. He has recently completed the chapter on medieval Latin song and 14th-century French secular song for the Schirmer Performer's Guide to Early Music and is completing a volume of monophonic Latin song for the Notre Dame Conductus: Opera Omnia series.
  In addition, Brewer's edition of 17th-century violin sonatas from the Kromeriz archives in Moravia has been published in the series, Recent Researches in Music of the Baroque Era (A-R Editions), and a monograph on the 17th-century instrumental music of East Central Europe is forthcoming from Scolar Press. He has received grants from the University of Alabama, Florida State University, the Fulbright/Hays Commission, the Department of Education, the National Endowment for the Humanities, and the International Research and Exchanges Board for research in Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, France, Austria, Switzerland and Great Britain.
  Dr. Brewer is a member of the American Musicological Society, the Society for Seventeenth-century Music, the International Schütz Society, and the International Musicological Society. Dr. Brewer is currently chair of the American Chapter of the International Heinrich Schütz Society.
FSU College of Music
122 N. Copeland St
Tallahassee, FL 32306
Main Office: 850-644-3424
Admissions: 850-644-6102
Box Office: 850-645-7949
        Visit on social media @musicFSU
© Florida State University
600 W. College Avenue
Tallahassee, FL 32306
Questions or Comments
Privacy Policy
Copyright
FSU Directory Assistance:
850-644-2525