Students | Staff | LearnJCU | Library | Contacts
jcu.me | What's new? | Help | Login
Research Portfolio
Dr Stephanie Topp ~ Senior Lecturer
College of Public Health, Medical & Vet Sciences
Anton Breinl Research Centre for Health Systems Strengthening
Researchers
Centres Institutes Colleges Search About this site Feedback
JCU > Research Portfolio > Dr Stephanie Topp
AboutHonoursPublicationsCurrent FundingSupervisionCollaboration
Stephanie is a Senior Lecturer in Global Health and Development in the College of Public Health, Medical and Veterinary Sciences. Her current work focuses on the application of systems-thinking and a primary health care approach to researching and designing health system strengthening interventions. 
Steph lived and worked abroad between 2007 - 2015 based in Zambia but also working in South Africa, Swaziland, Malawi, India and Papua New Guinea.  She is the Health Systems Technical Adviser and co-Primary Investigator for an EU funded health system strengthening grant in Zambian prisons, and co-investigator on several large studies examining both supply and demand-side challenges to HIV service delivery in the Zambian health system.
Steph is the Associate Editor for Health Systems with BMJ Global Health and current co-chair of the Health Systems Global thematic working group on Social Science approaches for health systems research.  She was previously a Visiting Assistant Professor in the Health Care Organization and Policy unit, School of Public Health, University of Alabama in Birmingham (UAB), and is an Honorary Research Fellow at the Nossal Institute for Global Health, University of Melbourne.  She has a PhD in Global Health from the University of Melbourne, Masters in Development Studies from Oxford University and a Masters in International Public Health from the University of Sydney.
Steph welcomes enquiries regarding PhD supervision in the field of health systems and policy research and global health.
Teaching
TM5501: Tropical Medicine (Level 5; TSV)
TM5502: Tropical Public Health (Level 5; TSV)
TM5552: Global Health and Development (Level 5; TSV)
Interests
Professional
Using systems-thinking to develop new approaches to health systems strengthening
Research
Health systems and policy research
Primary-level service delivery
Health workforce in low- and middle-income settings
Prisoner health
Teaching
Global public health
Health policy analysis
Sociology of health care
Qualitative research methods
Systems-thinking for health systems strengthening
Research Disciplines
Public Health and Health Services (1117) Policy and Administration (1605) Applied Economics (1402)
Socio-Economic Objectives
Health and Support Services (9202) Public Health (9204) Specific Population Health (9205)

Connect with me
Email
stephanie.topp@jcu.edu.au
Phone
+61 7 478 13476
Location
41.216, Public & Indigenous Health (Townsville campus)
Advisory Accreditation
Primary Advisor
Contact
vCard
Join my research team
My research areas
Motivation Health System Strengthening Accountability Health Systems Zambia Indigenous Studies Access Trust Health Economics Nutrition Service Delivery Antiretroviral Therapy Primary Health Care Prison Governance
Similar to me
Dr Robyn Preston
Australian Institute of Tropical Health & Medicine
Prof Komla Tsey
College of Arts, Society & Education
Dr Robin Ray
College of Medicine & Dentistry
Dr Lachlan McIver
College of Public Health, Medical & Vet Sciences
Prof Maxine Whittaker
College of Public Health, Medical & Vet Sciences
Contacts
Call 1800-246-446
Find a person or department
Emergencies
On campus call 0000, then 15555
About This Site
Lovingly crafted by hand in Pyramid and Python at James Cook University by the eResearch Centre and Research Services.
Icons from Iconic pack.
  Published Fri, 1 Feb 2013 04:00  Copyright © 1995 to 2013, James Cook University. All rights reserved. ABN 46253211955
Member of Innovative Research Universities |  Feedback |  Terms of use |  Privacy statement |  CRICOS Provider Code:00117J