Rutgers Home
School of Arts and Sciences
Search Rutgers
Search ...
Division of Life Sciences
Department of Genetics
Rutgers SAS Navigation
HOME
ABOUT
ACADEMICS
PEOPLE
NEWS & EVENTS
RESEARCH
SUPPORT US
CONTACT US
Jessica Joines
Clinical Assistant Professor
Email joines@dls.rutgers.edu
Phone (848) 445-9637
Biography
Publications
Biography
Jessica Joines is the Director of the Master’s in Genetic Counseling Program (MGCP), a track of the Microbiology and Molecular Genetics Program.  Ms. Joines obtained a Bachelor’s of Science from the University of Richmond and a Master’s in Genetic Counseling from the University of Maryland, Baltimore She is certified by the American Board of Genetic Counseling.  Ms. Joines has worked in a variety of clinical genetics settings including cancer, pediatrics, and neurology.  She has over fifteen years of experience of working with families who may carry an inherited susceptibility to cancer.  Her interests include cancer genetic counseling and genetic counseling professional development. 
In her role of Director of the MGCP she will oversee the administration, curriculum, and clinical placements of the graduate genetic counseling students.  The MGCP aims to accept its first class of students in Fall 2017.
Powered by Community Builder
Connect with Rutgers
Rutgers Home
Rutgers Today
myRutgers
Academic Calendar
Calendar of Events
SAS Events
Explore SAS
Departments & Degree-Granting Programs
Other Instructional Programs
Majors & Minors
Research Programs, Centers, & Institutes
International Programs
Division of Life Sciences
Quick Links
RUCDR
Human Genetics Institute of NJ
Rutgers Stem Cell Research Center
Division of Life Sciences
Follow us on Facebook
  Contact Us
Human Genetics Institute
Life Sciences Building
145 Bevier Road
Piscataway, NJ 08854-8082
P    848-445-1146
E geneticsoffice@biology.rutgers.edu
Home
Site Map
Search
Site Feedback
Login
Back to Top
Copyright © 2017, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, an equal opportunity, affirmative action institution. All rights reserved.