Department of Political Science
News and Events
Home
Undergraduate
Graduate
People
Research
About
Faculty


Ann Crigler
Professor of Political Science

Contact Information
E-mail: acrigler@usc.edu
Phone: (213) 740-3168
Office: VKC 327
Office Hours: Mondays : 5-6pm

  Education
A.B. , Wellesley College, 1977
Ph.D. , Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1986

Academic Appointment, Affiliation, and Employment History
Professor of Political Science, University of Southern California, 2003-  
Chair, Department of Political Science, University of Southern California, 2005-2011  

Description of Research
Summary Statement of Research Interests
Crigler's research examines how people understand and learn about politics from the news media. She has co-authored several publications on this subject including three books: Common Knowledge: News and the Construction of Political Meaning with W.R. Neuman and M. Just (University of Chicago Press, 1992); an edited volume, The Psychology of Political Communication (University of Michigan Press, 1996), and a co-authored book on media and the 1992 presidential campaign entitled Crosstalk: Citizens, Candidates and the Media in a Presidential Campaign with M. Just, D. Alger, T. Cook, M. Kern and D. West (University of Chicago Press, 1996). Following the disputed 2000 election, Professor Crigler co-edited a volume on electoral reform with Marion Just and Edward J. McCaffery entitled: Rethinking the Vote: The Politics and Prospects of American Election Reform (Oxford University Press, 2004). Her most recent book is a co-edited volume, The Affect Effect: Dynamics of Emotion in Political Thinking and Behavior (University of Chicago Press, 2007) which examines the role of emotions in political decision-making.
Research Specialties
American Politics, Political Communication, Public Opinion, Research Methods, Presidential Elections, Emotions and politics, Civic Engagement

Honors and Awards
USC Raubenheimer Outstanding Senior Faculty Award, Excelled in teaching, research and service to the University., 2010  


Faculty may update their profile by logging into the Dornsife portal from a computer on campus or off-campus via a VPN connection.


Department of Political Science
Phone: (213) 740 - 6998Email: posc@usc.edu
News and Events
Home
Undergraduate
Graduate
People
Faculty
Adjunct Faculty
Affiliated Faculty
Emeriti Faculty
Student Advisors
Staff
POSC Student Spotlights
Alumni
Research
About
NEWS AND EVENTS
HOME
UNDERGRADUATE
GRADUATE
PEOPLE
RESEARCH
ABOUT