SEARCH
ABOUT
CAREERS
GIVE
EXPERTISE
EDUCATION
RESEARCH
CLINICAL CARE
DEPARTMENTS
NEWS
Home Susan M. Hoffert, MD
Susan M. Hoffert, MD
Assistant Professor of Clinical Emergency Medicine
Bio
Susan is a native of Cleveland, Ohio.  After graduating in 1988 from John Carroll University with a B.S. in physics and a minor in English literature, she moved to Chicago with plans to pursue a Ph.D. in astrophysics while her husband completed a Ph.D. in nuclear physics.  However, she soon came to realize that, instead, her desire was to become a physician.  She graduated from the University of Illinois at Chicago School of Medicine in 1995 and began residency in pediatrics at Indiana University School of Medicine/Riley Hospital for Children.  After taking three years off in the middle of residency to care for her young children, she returned to complete pediatrics training in 2001, and has been a full-time faculty member at the Riley ED since that time. She exclusively works overnight shifts.
Susan has served on the Pediatric Code Committee since 2003.  In 2008, she received the Red Shoes Award for Outstanding Accomplishments and Contributions to Family Centered Care at Riley Hospital.
She lives on the far eastside of Indianapolis with her husband Mark, now a medical physicist for IU Proton Therapy in Bloomington, and two children, who keep her busy with their activities when she is not at work.
Caring for acutely and chronically ill children is her passion, and she finds the utmost satisfaction in the successful diagnosis of a rare or perplexing case.
Connect
Phone
(317) 944-3936 
Address
EMERGENCY MEDICINE
RI 5900 PED
Indianapolis, IN

  Titles & Appointments
Assistant Professor of Clinical Pediatrics
Education
Professional Organizations


Board Certifications

Looking for patient care?
To schedule an appointment with a faculty member physician of IU School of Medicine, contact Indiana University Health at 888-484-3258 or use the physician finder by clicking the button below.
FIND A DOCTOR
About
IU School of Medicine is the largest medical school in the US and is annually ranked among the top medical schools in the nation by US News & World Report. The school offers high-quality medical education, access to leading medical research and rich campus life in nine different Indiana cities, including rural and urban locations consistently recognized for livability.
Popular Topics
Admissions
Research
Residency
Campuses
Fact Sheet
Alumni
Contact
Indiana University School of Medicine
340 West 10th Street
Fairbanks Hall, Suite 6200
Indianapolis, IN 46202-3082
317-274-8157
iusm@iu.edu
Connect with Us!
Facebook
LinkedIn
Twitter
Instagram
FULFILLING the PROMISE
Copyright © 2017 The Trustees of Indiana University, Copyright Complaints
Privacy Notice | Accessibility Help