Current students
Alumni
Staff members
All
nl
en
Research
Education
Academic staff
About us
Faculties
Campus The Hague
Library
Home Nathalia Dessing
Nathalia Dessing
University Lecturer
ANTHROPOLOGY OF ISLAM
ISLAM IN EUROPE
ISLAMIC STUDIES
RITUAL STUDIES
STUDY OF RELIGION
Name
Dr. N.M. Dessing
Telephone
+31 71 527 1690
E-mail
n.m.dessing@hum.leidenuniv.nl
Profile Contact Publications Ancillary activities
Dr. Nathal M. Dessing is university lecturer in the History of Islam.
Dessing received her training in Islamic Studies at the Faculty of Religious Studies of Leiden University and earned her Ph.D. at the same department in 2001. She was a researcher and education coordinator at the International Institute for the Study of Islam in the Modern World (ISIM), Leiden, from 1998 to 2008. She is the author of  Rituals of Birth, Circumcision, Marriage, and Death among Muslims in the Netherlands (Leuven: Peeters, 2001).
Dessing was leader of the NWO-funded research programme "Individualization, Fragmentation of Authority, and New Organizational Forms among Muslims in Europe" (€485,000, 2006–2012). This programme aimed at defining forms and elements of Islam in Europe by analyzing the interplay between the individual, participation, and religious authority. Her research within this programme focused on Muslim women’s organizations in the Netherlands. The programme also included two Ph.D. projects studying two other organizational forms: Muslim student associations (Loubna El Morabet) and institutions of Islamic higher education (Firdaous Oueslati).
This research programme and Dessing’s collaboration with Nadia Jeldtoft, Jørgen Nielsen, and Linda Woodhead for the edited volume Everyday Lived Islam in Europe (Ashgate, 2013), has led Dessing to focus in her research to a greater extent on new ways of studying lived Islam, on the non-institutional dimensions of religion, away from the visible dimensions of religiosity in the representation of Muslims in Europe, without losing sight of the force of Islam as a discursive tradition.
Teaching
Methoden en technieken 1: bronnenonderzoek (BA)
Methoden en technieken 3: veldwerk (BA)
Seminar religie 1: Rituelen (BA)
Vergelijkende godsdienstwetenschap (BA)
Religie en geweld (keuzevak)
Theologie en filosofie van de islam (BA)
Rituals and symbols of Islam (minor Islam: Religion and Society)
Piety, Modernity, and Gender in Islam: Anthropological Perspectives (MA)
Confronting Modernity (MA)



Research
Representations of Everyday Islam in Europe: Scholars and the ‘Real World’
Individualization, Fragmentation of Authority, and New Organizational Forms among Muslims in Europe
Everyday Lived Islam in Europe
Rituals of Birth, Circumcision, Marriage, and Death among Muslims in the Netherlands
Teaching
International Studies (BA)
Religious Studies (BA)
Organisation
Humanities
Centre for the Study of Religion
Leiden University Centre for the Study of Islam and Society
The many faces of a world religion
Research dossier
Study programmes
Bachelor's programmes
Master's programmes
PhD programmes
Summer School
Other modes of study
Bachelor's Open Days
Master's Open Days
Application & Admission
Organisation
Archaeology
Governance and Global Affairs
Humanities
Law
Medicine/LUMC
Science
Social and Behavioural Sciences
ICLON (Graduate School of Teaching)
African Studies Centre Leiden
Honours Academy
Plato
About us
Working at Leiden University
Alumni
Impact
Leiden-Delft-Erasmus
Locations
Disclaimer
Contact
Connect with us
Sign up to receive our monthly newsletter