UCL  IRIS
Institutional Research Information Service
UCL Home»IRIS
IRIS FAQ Log In
IRIS Home
Browse IRIS
› More search options
Dr Cara Vaughan
G53
ISMB, School of Biological Sciences
Birkbeck College, Malet Street
London
WC1E 7HX
cara.vaughan@ucl.ac.uk
Tel: 02076316809
Fax: 02076316803
http://people.cryst.bbk.ac.uk/~ubcg72a/Home.html
ProfilePublicationsResearch ActivitiesAchievements
Appointment
Lecturer
Structural & Molecular Biology
Div of Biosciences
Faculty of Life Sciences
Research Groups
Institute of Structural & Molecular Biology, UCL/Birkbeck
Research Themes
Basic Life Sciences
Cancer
Personalised Medicine
Research Summary
The molecular chaperone Hsp90 is involved in the activation of many proteins involved in signal transduction and cell cycle pathways, making it a critical determinant of proper cellular function. 
Hsp90-dependent kinetochore assemby
A recently discovered role of Hsp90 is in the assembly and/or regulation of the kinetochore. This is part of the mitotic apparatus that functions in the segregation sister chromatids to daughter cells. The kinetochore assembles on centromeric DNA forming a bridge between sister chromatids and the microtubules of the spindle pole and has the ability to maintain this connection despite the rapid polymerisation and depolymerisation of the attached microtubules. It is also the origin of the spindle assembly checkpoint that signals the anaphase-wait. 
My current research focuses on the role of Hsp90 in kinetochore assembly and function, using the budding yeastSaccharomyces cerevisiae as a model organism.
Post Translational Modification of Hsp90 Cochaperones
Post translational modification of Hsp90 and its cochaperones is emerging as an important layer of regulation of Hsp90 function. I am currently interested in understanding the structural and functional consequences of phosphorylation of Hsp90 cochaperones. 
Techniques
The techniques we use include X-ray crystallography and single particle electron microscopy, but other biophysical and biochemical techniques are used to complement structural studies.
Teaching Summary
I currently teach lectures on Bioc2004 (Biomolecular Structure and Function) and Bioc3003 (Advanced Biomolecular Mechanisms) at UCL, and am a tutor on Bioc1007 (The Principles and Practice of Experimental Biochemistry). At Birkbeck I teach on the MSc in Bioinformatics with Systems Biology and on the BSc Biology in the Advanced Cellular Biology module. I also contribute to a series of techniques lectures run at Birkbeck College for PhD students and postdoctoral researchers in the department.
Academic Background
1999 PhD Doctor of Philosophy – Crystallography University of Cambridge
1994 BSc Hons Bachelor of Science (Honours) – Chemistry University of Glasgow
Please report any queries concerning the data shown on this page to https://www.ucl.ac.uk/hr/helpdesk/helpdesk_web_form.php
DisclaimerFreedom of InformationAccessibilityPrivacyCookiesAdvanced SearchContact Us
University College London - Gower Street - London - WC1E 6BT Tel:+44 (0)20 7679 2000
© UCL 1999–2017
Search by 