Cookies help us to give you the best experience on our website. You can change your cookie settings if you wish. Otherwise we'll assume you're OK to continue.OKSee our policy
UK
China
Malaysia
Study
Research
Business
Global
About
A-Z
   You are here:
  University of NottinghamHealth SciencesPeople
School of Health Sciences
       Home
About Us
Undergraduate Study
Continuing Professional Development
Postgraduate Study
Research
International study
Alumni
Partners
Practice
People
Open Days
News
Events
Contact Us
  Linda East
Associate Professor, Faculty of Medicine & Health Sciences
Download to vCard
Back to the Staff Directory
Personal Details
Admin Responsibilities
Research
Publications
Contact
Room B55c
Queen's Medical Centre
Nottingham
NG7 2UH
UK
0115 82 30893
0115 82 30999
linda.east@nottingham.ac.uk
Biography
Linda East undertook her nurse training at St Mary's Hospital, Paddington and qualified as a registered general nurse in 1986. She has experience delivering nursing care in emergency, medicine and elderly care settings.
Prior to nurse training, Linda completed a BSc in Sociology and Social Policy at the University of Southampton, gaining a disciplinary foundation that has underpinned her career in practice, education and research. Her doctoral research focused on the reception of asylum seekers dispersed to a provincial English city, exploring questions of hospitality and solidarity at the limits of state welfare provision.
Since joining the University of Nottingham as a lecturer in 1992, Linda has taken pride in designing and delivering innovative nursing education programmes. As Course Director for the MSc Advanced Nursing programme, she has been instrumental in the graduation of more than 200 home and international graduates. She has a national and international profile in advanced nursing practice as a committee member of the UK Association of Advanced Practice Educators (AAPE) and the International Council of Nurses Nurse Practitioner/Advanced Nursing Practice Network.
Linda has a strong interest in working internationally. She has worked with University's International Office to support international scholarship schemes such as 'Developing Solutions', and engages in collaborative projects with overseas partners. Linda is a Trustee of a charity supporting the work of a Ghanaian NGO, 'Dream Big Ghana', allowing her to practically express her commitment to health, development and sustainability.
Expertise Summary
Teaching expertise:
Adult nursing, especially renal care and cardiac rehabilitation
Qualitative research methods
Curriculum design and quality enhancement
Health, sustainability and human rights
Currently supervising the following doctoral research projects:
The influence of an Acute Pain Team on postoperative pain management in Jordan: a comparative case study (Atef Al-Tawafsheh)
Decision making in End Stage Kidney Disease (ESKD) in Ghana: exploring the quandaries (Edward Appiah Boateng)
Implementing user-designed multimedia learning objects (RLOs) in clinical nurse education in Saudi Arabia (Hadeel Lamphon)
Young men's perspectives on health and a healthy body (Danielle Mills)
Recently completed PhD supervision:
A preoperative education intervention to improve postoperative recovery among Chinese cardiac patients: a randomised controlled trial (Ping Guo, 2012)
The health experiences of Eritrean refugee families in the UK (Haggi Michael, 2013)
A phenomenological study exploring parental experiences of caring for infants with Pierre Robin Sequence managed with nasopharyngeal airways (Karine Latter, 2014
Teaching Summary
Areas of expertise in teaching:
Advanced nursing (and related topics)
Adult nursing
Conceptual frameworks for practice improvement
Qualitative research methods and analysis
Global health and sustainability
Educational Leadership:
Course Director, MSc Advanced Nursing
Convener for MSc modules Theory and Practice of Advanced Nursing, Dissertation
External Examiner (The University of Liverpool and National University of Ireland, Cork)
Quality and standards:
Member of University's Quality and Standards Committee 2012-2013 (representing Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences)
Academic lead for assessment (postgraduate)
Research Summary
Person-centred counselling in cardiac rehabilitation. NIHR Research Capability Funding, Nottingham City PCT. £18,849 (April 2013 - January 2015), with David Murphy, Jacqui Radford and Patrick… read more
Selected Publications
EAST L., STOKES R. and WALKER M., 2014. Universities, the public good and professional education in the UK Studies in Higher Education. 39(9), 1617-1633
GOODMAN B. and EAST L., 2014. The 'sustainability lens': a framework for nurse education that is 'fit for the future' Nurse Education Today. 34(1), 100-103
JACK-IDE, I.O., AZEBIRI, B.P. and EAST, L., 2013. Stigma and mental disorders: exploring perceptions of Nigerian students in the United Kingdom Journal of Research in Nursing and Midwifery. 2(3), 40-46
GUO, P., EAST, L. and ARTHUR, A., 2012. A preoperative education intervention to reduce anxiety and improve recovery among Chinese cardiac patients:a randomized controlled trial. International Journal of Nursing Studies. 49(2), 129-137
View all publications
School of Health Sciences
B Floor, South Block Link
Queen's Medical Centre
Nottingham, NG7 2HA
telephone: +44 (0)115 823 0850
email: shs-enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
Legal information
Copyright
Terms and conditions
Privacy
Posting rules
Accessibility
Freedom of information
Charity gateway
Cookie policy
Get social
Connect with the University of Nottingham through social media and our blogs.
        Campus maps | More contact information | Jobs
 