UCL Home Prospective students Current students Staff Give
skip to navigation
.
skip to content
.
UCL INSTITUTE OF ARCHAEOLOGY
UCL Home Archaeology People Staff Chiara Bonacchi
Institute of Archaeology
Home
News and Events
Study Here
Research
People
Staff
Academic and Research
Professional Support
Centre for Applied Archaeology
Emeritus
Honorary
Research students
Affiliate academics
About
Contact
Intranet
Student Intranet (Moodle)
A A A
c.bonacchi@ucl.ac.uk
Direct: +44 (0)20 7679 4737
Internal: 24737
Room 613
UCL Institute of Archaeology, 31-34 Gordon Square, London WC1H 0PY UK
Academia profile 
Chiara Bonacchi
Profile
Publications
BA, MA, PhD
AHRC-funded Researcher Co-Investigator, Iron Age and Roman Heritages: ancient identities in modern Britain
Co-founder, MicroPasts
Network Co-ordinator: Archaeology, Media and Communication Research Network
Assistant Editor, Archaeology International
Honorary Research Associate, UCL Institute of Archaeology
Research Interests
Public archaeology
Public perceptions and experience of the past
The communication and representation of archaeology
Social and economic values in archaeology
Cultural heritage and museum studies
Digital technologies in heritage and GLAMs
Heritage and Data science
Museum and site interpretation
Heritage and identity
Heritage policy
Medieval archaeology in the Mediterranean
Archaeology and heritage of the built environment
Research Directory Records
Iron Age and Roman Heritages: ancient identities in modern Britain (AHRC-funded)
Digital Heritage 'Big Data' Hacking and Visualisation (UCL Global Engagement Fund)
Crowd- and Community-fuelled Archaeological Research (MicroPasts) (AHRC-funded)
MicroPasts Knowledge Exchanges (AHRC-funded)
Public Archaeology and Digital Curatorship in Italy (Funded by Museo Egizio, Italy)
Archaeology, Media and Communication Research Network
External contributor to Cultural Heritage Mediascapes: Innovation in Knowledge and Mediation Practices
Other past collaborations
Realities and Impact of Museum University Partnerships in England; Post-Doctoral Research Fellow, Central Saint Martins, University of the Arts London, (2015-16).
Digital Cultural Engagement with Museums, Galleries and heritage; Post-Doctoral Research Associate in the International Centre for Cultural and Heritage Studies, Newcastle University (2013).
First Italian Congress on Public Archaeology with University of Florence (2012).
Archaeological mission ‘Medieval’ Petra-Shawbak Project; with University of Florence.
Educational Background
2012: PhD in Archaeology, UCL Institute of Archaeology. Thesis title: Communicating Archaeology: From Trends to Policy. Public Perceptions and Experience in the Changing Media Environment.
2007: MA in Medieval Archaeology, University of Florence.
2005: BA in History and Conservation of Archaeological Heritage, University of Florence.


Tags | Audio-visual media | Britain | Buildings | Community Archaeology | Cultural Heritage | Europe | Heritage Studies | Middle East | Public Archaeology | Public Engagement | Medieval | Mediterranean | Museum Studies
Normal view | High contrast view
Disclaimer Freedom of Information Accessibility Privacy Cookies Slavery statement Contact Us
UCL Institute of Archaeology - 31-34 Gordon Square - London - WC1H 0PY Tel: +44 (0)20 7679 7495
© UCL 1999–2017