HOME
UNDERGRAD
GRAD
BLOG
EVENTS
FOR FACULTY
PUBLICATIONS
PEOPLE
CONTACT
Louann Reid
Contact Information
Phone: 970.491.6428
Email: Louann.Reid@colostate.edu
Office: 362 Eddy
Role: Faculty
Position: Professor and Department Chair
Concentration:
English Education
Department: English
Biography
Professor and Chair. B.A., English and Communications, Linfield College; M.A., English, Washington State University; Ph.D., English Education, New York University.
Professor Reid teaches undergraduate and graduate courses in English education. Courses include theories of teaching literature; theories of reading visual texts; world literature; and methods of teaching reading, language arts, and composition. She is a past editor of English Journal, a national publication for secondary school English language arts teachers. She has published articles in numerous professional journals, including English Journal and English Education, and gives workshops nationally and internationally on teaching international literature to young adults, graphic narratives, critical reading and thinking strategies, and visual literacy. Current research interests include an investigation of the pedagogical potential of graphic narratives and the roles of multimodal literacies in preservice teacher education and secondary English language arts curriculum. Eight textbooks coauthored with Fran Claggett and Ruth Vinz exemplify her theories: Learning the Landscape, Recasting the Text (1996) and six Daybooks of Critical Reading and Writing for grades 6 12 (2009). Reflective Activities: Helping Students Connect with Texts (1998), edited with Jeffrey Golub, gathers exemplary classroom practices around the unifying theme of the power of reflection in teaching and learning. Rationales for Teaching Young Adult Literature (1999), edited with Jamie Hayes Neufeld, incorporates her research interests in censorship, literacy, and adolescents' literature.
Education
PhD
Curriculum Vitae
Download Curriculum Vitae
All posts by Louann Reid
Beat Poet Gary Snyder To Read at CSU
August 7, 2014 Louann Reid
On September 17 at 7:30 p.m. you can hear Pulitzer Prize winning poet Gary Snyder read from his work at the UCA Organ Recital Hall. You don’t want to miss this.
Construction Progress, June 23, 2014
June 29, 2014 Louann Reid
Who knew how much destruction preceded revitalization? Work is seriously underway toward the new and improved Eddy Hall. The third-floor Eddy faculty are troopers, braving electrical outages, no A/C (how did that happen?), and dust. The Ingersoll faculty are also troopers with no A/C but free of dust with working electricity, as far as we know.
Watch this space for updates. Eddy’s gonna be great!
News of Note the Week of May 19
May 21, 2014 Louann Reid
  Eddy faculty and staff are on the move! The Little Guys crew will spend the week transferring years of files and accumulated furniture from faculty, offices, and classrooms in the east and south sides of Eddy. At one point there were at least 13 movers at the same time at Eddy and Ingersoll. It’s quite the project, and we are optimistic that in 15 to 18 months we’ll have a thoroughly “revitalized” space for teaching and learning. In the meantime, watch for updates on this blog and on our website.
Tags: News of Note
NAVIGATION
Home
Undergrad
Grad
Blog
Events
For Faculty
Publications
People
Contact
CONTACT
Department of English
359 Willard O. Eddy Hall
1773 Campus Delivery
Ft. Collins, CO 80523-1773

Phone: 970.491.6428
Email: english@colostate.edu
OFFICIAL
Liberal Arts
Student Accessibility
Faculty Accessibility
FSAS Help
FSAS Login
Contact Webmaster
Admissions
Disclaimer
Equal Opportunity
Employment
Privacy Statement
Login
META
LOG IN ENTRIES RSS COMMENTS RSS WORDPRESS.ORG
SEARCH
SEARCH FOR: