Accept of cookies from www.ku.dk
The University of Copenhagen uses cookies as part of the statistics work on its website www.ku.dk
You can erase cookies from www.ku.dk at any time.
ACCEPT COOKIES
Read more about cookies on www.ku.dk
All
News
Master's Programmes
Continuing Education
Researchers
Publications
Jobs
Study at UCPH
Research
News
Collaboration
Employment
About UCPH
Map Phone Book KUnet Dansk
Department of Media, Cognition and Communication
Department of Media, Cognition and Communication > Staff
Hanne Roer
Associate Professor
Department of Media, Cognition and Communication
KUA2, Building: 15B-2-22
2300 København S
roer@hum.ku.dk
http://www.mef.ku.dk/
Phone: +45 35 32 94 32
Presentation
CV
Publications
Activities
Keywords
Most downloaded
Research:
I am currently working on the reception of St. Augustine's rhetorical writings, from 430 to modern rhetoric and contemporary homiletics. My papers, book chapters and journal articles have for the past six years been dedicated to St. Augustine’s rhetoric and its impact on later rhetorical writers.
I have been an associate professor at the section for rhetoric at the Department for Media, Cognition and Communication, University of Copenhagen since 2004. My Ph.D.-thesis on Dante Alighieri’s theory of language, poetics and rhetoric in 1999 was titled Dante Impositor. On the Origins of Poetry and Language in Dante and the Modistae (2000). Taking the dissertation as my starting point I published the monograph Beatrice i Paradiset: En rejse i Dantes værker. Aarhus Universitetsforlag 2010 (307 pp) on Dante's poetics and rhetoric - the first monograph in Danish on Dante since 1892.
I have partly written and edited (with M. Lund, Aarhus University) a textbook on rhetorical criticism, Retorikkens Aktualitet, that has come out in thee editions (2006, 2009, 2014). It introduces American rhetorical criticism and offers original close readings of Danish political texts. 
Teaching:
I teach courses in the history of rhetoric, visual rhetoric, rhetorical theory and rhetorical criticism. I supervise BA and master theses in all disciplines of the curriculum.
Conferences:
Since 2005 I have attended the conferences held by The International Society for The History of Rhetoric as well as the Nordic conferences on research in rhetoric (since 1999). I have been participating in conferences and seminars held by the Nordic network on law, literature and rhetoric and the Bergen School of Law and Literature (2005-2015). In the period 1999-2006 I was part of the Nordic Dante Network, attending the related conferences.
Research visits abroad and languages:
I have stayed in Rome and Pisa for longer periods, working in libraries and archives, and in shorter periods in Paris, Venice, Oxford and Coimbra. I read Greek, Latin, French, Italian, German, English and some Spanish, apart from the Scandinavian languages.
Communication to the public:
I regularly write for popular magazines such as Retorikmagasinet, Kommunikationsforum and Sfinx.
I have also curated (with artist Anita V. Nielsen) the art exhibition 00197 Roma (Sophienholm 2015). 
Selected publications
Beatrice i Paradiset: En rejse i Dantes værker
Roer, H. 14 Dec 2010 Aarhus Universitetsforlag. 307 p.
Dante: Om veltalenhed på folkesproget
Roer, H. (Translator) & Høgel, C. (Translator) 2008 Dante om poesi og sprog. Syddansk Universitetsforlag, p. 17-73 56 p. (Klassikeroversættelser; No. 9).
Retorikkens aktualitet: Grundbog i retorisk kritik
Roer, H. (ed.) & Klujeff, M. L. (ed.) 2009 2 ed. Hans Reitzel. 363 p.
Rhetoric
Roer, H. 2013 The Oxford Guide to the Historical Reception of Augustine. Pollmann, K. (ed.). Oxford: Oxford University Press, Vol. 3, p. 1650-1657 7 p.
Reading the negative: Kenneth Burke and Jean-Francois Lyotard on Augustine’s Confessions
Roer, H. 1 Aug 2015 In : KB Journal. 11, 1, 20 p.


Department of Media, Cognition and Communication
Home
About the Department
Staff
Research
Education
PhD
Collaborations
Library
Publications
Contact Us
Centre for Advanced Migration Studies
Centre for Communication and Computing
Center for Information and Bubble Studies
Center for Subjectivity Research
Faculty of Humanities
Most downloads
12675 downloads
Realisme, sanselighed og sandhed: Nogle begreber i dantekritikken
Research - peer-review › Book chapter
Department of Media, Cognition and Communication
University of Copenhagen
Karen Blixens Plads 8
DK-2300 København S

Contact:
Tine Weidick
tweidick@hum.ku.dk

UNIVERSITY OF COPENHAGEN
Management
Administration
Faculties
Departments
Research Centres
Animal hospitals
School of Dentistry
Libraries
Museums
CONTACT
Map
Find an employee
Contact UCPH
SERVICES
Press and media service
Merchandise
UCPH apps
IT-support
FOR STUDENTS AND EMPLOYEES
KUnet
JOB AND CAREER
Job portal
Alumni
EMERGENCIES
Emergency response
WEB
Cookies and privacy policy
Information Security
CONNECT WITH UCPH