Skip to main content
The University of Iowa
COLLEGE OF LIBERAL ARTS & SCIENCES
ENGLISH AS A SECOND LANGUAGE
Search form
Search
IIEP
TAPE
ESL Credit Program
Mission
People
Other Programs
Contact
Iowa Intensive English Program (IIEP)
Admission
Courses
Student Life
Visa & Arrival
Calendar & Costs
Activities for Current Students
Degree-Seeking Students Testing into IIEP
Frequently Asked Questions
IIEP Upcoming Events
There are no events at this time.









1
2
3
4
5
6
Previous
Next
Iowa Intensive English Program
Located in Iowa City, Iowa, The University of Iowa Intensive English Program (IIEP) provides intensive English instruction and a cultural, social, and academic orientation to the United States. Instruction emphasizes spoken and written English crucial to college and university study in the U.S. Grammar, writing, reading, listening, comprehension, pronunciation, and conversation skills are taught each day at all levels. Students receive 20 hours of instruction per week in addition to individual work in the language laboratory.
Because class size is small (12–15 students per class), each student receives personal attention and encouragement. Our teachers are well-trained and hold advanced degrees in teaching English as a Second Language. All have considerable teaching experience and most have taught outside the United States. Students starting intensive English studies at the beginning level will normally acquire sufficient proficiency to begin academic work after three to four terms in the IIEP. Intermediate students usually require one to two terms, and advanced students normally require one term. The duration of intensive English study required for an individual student varies depending on personal motivation, level of proficiency, and aptitude. At the end of the program, the IIEP issues a Certificate of Attendance to students who have attended class regularly and have received passing grades.
Field trips and cultural activities are an integral part of the Iowa Intensive English Program. In recent years, our students have visited St. Louis, Missouri; the Amana Colonies; a historic village in Kalona, Iowa; a Cedar Rapids Kernels AAA baseball game; and a Halloween corn maze.
The IIEP is authorized to issue I-20s for students applying for F-1 visas. For questions about other visas, please contact the Iowa Intensive English Program at iiep@uiowa.edu. Read more about visa issuance.
Please e-mail us if you have any questions about the Iowa Intensive English Program. We look forward to welcoming you as a student!
  Our Mission
The Iowa Intensive English Program (IIEP) at The University of Iowa is dedicated to providing students whose first language is not English with high quality intensive English instruction and a cultural, social, and academic orientation to the United States.
  Accreditation
The Iowa Intensive English Program is accredited by the Commission on English Language Program Accreditation (CEA) for the period 2016-2026 and agrees to uphold the CEA Standards for English Language Programs and Institutions.  CEA is recognized by the U.S. Secretary of Education as a national accrediting agency.  For further information about this accreditation, please contact the Commission on English Language Program Accreditation, 801 N. Fairfax Street, Suite 402A, Alexandria, VA 22314, (703) 665-3400, www.cea-accredit.org.
(319) 335-5630
(319) 335-6037
IIEP E-mail iiep@uiowa.edu
ESL/TAPE E-mail esl-program@uiowa.edu
ESL Programs Office
1112 University Capitol Centre
Iowa City, IA 52242-5500
Accredited by the Commission on English Language Program Accreditation (CEA).
Member of University and College Intensive English Programs (UCIEP).
Member of American Association of Intensive English Programs (AAIEP).