Quick Links
McGill University
Department of Chemistry
Main navigation
Home
Department
Research
People
»
Faculty
Staff
Undergraduate Studies
»
Prospective Undergraduate Students
Current Undergraduate Students
Undergraduate Programs
Undergraduate Courses
Graduate Studies
»
Prospective Graduate Students
Current Graduate Students
Graduate programs
Graduate Courses
News
Seminars/events
Jobs
Contact
McGill.CA / DEPARTMENT OF CHEMISTRY / Faculty
Audrey Moores
Associate Professor
Post-doctoral Fellow (2006-2007, Yale University)
Ph.D. (Chemistry, 2005, Ecole Polytechnique)
M.Sc. (Chemistry, 2002, Ecole Polytechnique)
B.Sc in Chemistry (2001, Ecole Polytechnique)
Co-associate director of the FQRNT "Centre en la Chimie Verte et la Catalyse"
Program Committee member of the NSERC-CREATE in "Green Chemistry"
Associate Editor, RSC Advances, Royal Chemical Society
CNC-IUPAC travel award, 2016
Outside Quebec Exchange Professorship, 2014, awarded by FRQNT, in support for a 2 month visit at Princeton University, Princeton NJ, USA
Canada Research Chair in Green Chemistry, Renewal, Tier II, 2012-2017.
Science Communication Fellowships for Green Chemistry, 2011, awarded by Environmental Health News and Advancing Green Chemistry.
Canada Research Chair in Green Chemistry, Tier II, 2007-2012
Best PhD Thesis Award, Ecole Polytechnique, 2005
Office: 310
Phone: (514)398-4654
Email: Audrey.Moores@mcgill.ca
Web Page: http://www.mcgill.ca/moores-group/
Lab: 400
Lab Phone: 514-398-1689
Research Themes:
Materials Chemistry 
Synthesis/Catalysis
Research Description:
Research Interests: Nanoparticles and Catalysis for Green Chemistry
Our group focuses on synthesising, characterizing and studying novel, and simple catalysts, based on metal nanoparticles, ionic liquids and/or cellulose nanocrystals in order to propose innovative and recyclable catalysts for organic reactions.
Axis 1 - Magnetic Nanoparticles as Green Catalysts: We use iron oxides, reduced iron and mixed iron/transition metal nanoparticles as simple, stabilizer-free and non-functionalized magnetic nanocatalysts for green organic synthesis. We study reactions of coupling, hydrogenation, C-H activiation and oxidation. We recently demonstratated that iron-iron oxide core-shell nanoparticles are active in the hydrogenation of olefins in ethanol and in the presence of water
Axis 2 - Functionalized Ionic Liquids as Improved Stabilizers of Nanocatalysts.: We synthesized a family of functionalized ionic liquids composed of phosphines or thiols linked to an imidazolium ring through an alkyl spacer. These stabilizers serve in the synthesis of transition metal nanoparticles. We used the phosphine/imidazolium series to stabilize palladium and rhodium NPs. These FIL stabilized NPs were active and recyclable catalysts for the hydrogenation of alkenes and arenes under mild conditions. We reported a dependence of the catalytic activity on the structural parameters of the FIL.
Axis 3 - Functionalized Ionic Liquids as Improved Stabilizers of Nanocatalysts.: Cellulose Nanocrystallites (CNCs) are nano whiskers (150 x 5 nm) composed of highly crystalline cellulose. This material can be processed from wood and has found applications as a coating agent and reinforcing material. We very recently showed that this material could also be used to support palladium nanoparticles, and fabricated a well defined hybrid material, PdNPs@CNCs, consisting of monodisperse PdNPs evenly deposited onto colloidal CNCs. The resulting material was active in the hydrogenation of phenol to cyclohexanone in water under very mild conditions and the Heck coupling.
Currently Teaching:
CHEM 281 Inorganic Chemistry 1 3 Credits

CHEM 462 Green Chemistry 3 Credits

CHEM 512 Catalysis, Concepts and App 3 Credits

Department and University Information
Column 1
McGill Links
Faculty of Science
Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
A question? Ask McGill
McGill Library
Office of Science and Society
Column 2
Knowledge Societies
Canadian Society for Chemistry
The American Chemical Society
The Royal Chemical Society
Column 3
Department of Chemistry
McGill University
801 Sherbrooke St. West
Montréal, Québec H3A 0B8
tel: 514-398-6999
fax: 514-398-3797
twitter: @McGillChemistry
Sign in (site maintenance)
Copyright © 2017 McGill University