Skip to main content
Ohio State nav bar
Skip to main content
The Ohio State University
Help
BuckeyeLink
Map
Find People
Webmail
Search Ohio State
KNOWLTON
SCHOOL
Search form
Search
ARCHITECTURE LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE CITY AND REGIONAL PLANNING
You are in section
FACULTY AND STAFF
, in section
Faculty Directory
, on page
Justin Diles
.
Justin Diles
Assistant Professor, Architecture Section
277 Knowlton Hall
614-292-8461
diles.8@osu.edu
CV (+)
Justin Diles is an assistant professor of architecture at the Knowlton School. His current design work and research centers on the architectural effects of thick assemblies made from thin but strong materials. Strategically drawing on architectural history, contemporary visual culture, digital design and fabrication techniques, and advanced composite materials, Diles teaches studios and seminars that promote architecture that is visually animated, materially concentrated and expertly constructed.
Diles received his Bachelor's Degree in architecture from Washington University in St. Louis and his Master of Architecture from the University of Pennsylvania in 2006, where he was awarded the Faculty Prize for distinguished work. Before coming to Knowlton, he taught at The University of Applied Arts, Vienna in the studio of Greg Lynn and at the University of Pennsylvania as a lecturer in the post-professional program.
Diles has led numerous workshops on contemporary design techniques, most recently at the 2011 Smart Geometry Workshop at the Royal Danish Academy in Copenhagen. He enjoys an ongoing collaboration and dialogue with the structural engineer and programmer Clemens Preisinger at Bollinger Grohmann Engineers, Vienna. Prior to joining the architecture faculty, Diles held the Knowlton School’s Howard E. LeFevre Emerging Practitioner Fellowship during which he developed an original architectural tectonic from his research into deformation patterns produced by structural buckling.
RECENT NEWS
Knowlton School Faculty Receive Teaching Awards from the College of Engineering
Diles’ TEX-FAB ‘Plasticity Pavilion’ Highlighted by Architect Magazine
Diles Wins TEX-FAB Plasticity Competition
Possible Mediums Exhibit Highlighted in Architectural Review
Possible Mediums Exhibits at Taubman College Liberty Gallery
Justin Diles’ Eigenforms Project Highlighted in A|N Fabrikator Blog
Possible Mediums Exhibition Wins Graham Foundation Grant
KSA MArch Students Participate in Figural Structures Workshop
Diles and Roth Announced as 2012 LeFevre Fellow and Trott Professor
Architecture Students Visit Coop Himmelb(l)au Designed Museum in Akron
About the School
News and Events
Lecture Series
Academic Programs
Admissions
Students
Faculty and Staff
Alumni and Friends
Support the School
Resources
Contact
© The Ohio State University
Austin E. Knowlton School of Architecture
275 West Woodruff Avenue
Columbus, OH 43210-1138
Phone: 614-292-1012 | Fax: 614-292-7106
Accessibility Contact Login