skip to primary navigation
skip to content
Study at Cambridge
About the University
Research at Cambridge
Quick links
Faculty Staff List | Contact Us
Home
/ Departments A-Z /
Faculty of Education / People in the Faculty / Sue Swaffield
The Faculty of Education
Home
About
Map & How To Reach Us
Job Opportunities in the Faculty
Visiting Scholars
Visiting Students
Study with Us
Undergraduate Study
PGCE Study
Graduate Study
Practitioner Professional Development
  » Counselling
Student Engagement & Feedback
Research
Research Areas
Open Research Seminars
Working Paper Series
Research Projects
Academic Groups
Publications
Centres & Networks
REAL Centre
PEDAL Centre
Centre for Children's Literature
Education Reform and Innovation
NRICH mathematics
Cambridge School Classics Project
Leadership for Learning
CamSTAR Network
CEDiR Group
CIAN Network
CRiCLE Network
SUPER Network
Cambridge Primary Review Trust
People
Academic Staff
Associated Academic Staff
Emeritus Readers and Professors
Doctoral Students
News
Bulletin  
Audio & Video
How to submit News
Events
Open Research Seminar Calendar
Conferences
Media
Library
Opening Hours
Services
IT Service
AV Support Service
External Bookings
  educ NET  
  Sue Swaffield
Faculty of Education
People in the Faculty
Sue Swaffield
Academic Staff
Associated Academic Staff
Emeritus Readers and Professors
Doctoral Students
Completed Doctoral Theses
Position/Status
University Senior Lecturer - Educational Leadership and School Improvement
E-mail Address
ses42@cam.ac.uk
Phone
01223 767633
Qualifications
PhD (Cantab)
MA (Cantab)
MEd (Cantab)
MA (UEA)
BEd (Hons)(Cantab)
Cert Ed
Membership of Professional Bodies/Associations
American Educational Research Association
Association for Achievement and Improvement through Assessment (President 1999-2001, and Honorary Life Member)
British Educational Leadership, Management and Administration Society
British Educational Research Association
International Professional Development Association
Profile
Sue Swaffield's teaching and research interests are within the fields of educational leadership, school improvement and assessment. Leadership for learning, critical friendship and assessment for learning are particular interests - and often interconnect. Her work in Higher Education builds on two decades of teaching in a variety of schools and serving as a local authority adviser.

Sue is a member of the Educational Leadership, Policy, Evaluation and Change academic group in the Faculty of Education, and a co-founder of Leadership for Learning: the Cambridge Network. She also belongs to the Research for Equitable Access and Learning (REAL) centre, and the Cambridge Educational Dialogue Research (CEDiR) group.

The Leadership for Learning (LfL) framework and principles that are so prominent in Sue's work were developed through the seven country LfL Carpe Vitam project that she co-directed, and have subsequently been adopted in many contexts around the world, including by the Ghana Education Service. Sue's career long involvement with Assessment for Learning has included research and development projects large and small, a wide range of publications, and numerous presentations, courses and workshops. She studies and promotes critical friendship particularly in relation to school leaders and school improvement, and among students.  
Sue teaches on the Doctoral, Masters and Practitioner Professional Development programmes, co-ordinating the Educational Leadership and School Improvement MEd and MPhil, as well as the Postgraduate Certificate in Educational Assessment and Examinations.
She is a past president and honorary life member of AAIA (Association for Achievement and Improvement through Assessment), Associate Editor of the journal ‘Professional Development in Education’, and on the editorial advisory board of ‘Assessment in Education: principles, policy and practice’. 
Sue is a Fellow of Wolfson College Cambridge, a Syndic of Cambridge University Press, and Adjunct Research Fellow in the Griffith Institute for Educational Research, Griffith University, Brisbane.

Academic Area/Links
Educational Leadership
School Improvement
Leadership for Learning
Assessment for Learning
Research Topics
Leadership for Learning
Assessment for Learning
Critical Friendship
Prospective PhD Applications
Sue would welcome informal contact from prospective PhD students on any of the research topics mentioned above.
Research Projects
Cambridge Schools Leadership for Learning Community
Leadership in Co-operative Schools
Developing Assessment for Learning in a cluster of schools
Support and Challenge for Headteachers
Leadership for Learning: Building headteachers' leadership capacity - Ghana
Learning How To Learn (ESRC/TLRP)
Leadership for Learning: the Carpe Vitam project (Wallenberg) 
Schools Facing Exceptionally Challenging Circumstances (DfES)
Courses 
MEd and MPhil: Educational Leadership and School Improvement
Postgraduate Certificate in Educational Assessment and Examinations
Publications
Refereed journal articles
Swaffield, S. (2015) Support and challenge for school leaders: Headteachers’ perceptions of School Improvement Partners. Educational Management Administration and Leadership 43(1) 61-76. doi:10.1177/1741143213494884
Malakolunthu, S., MacBeath, J. and Swaffield, S. (2014) Improving the quality of teaching and learning through 'Leadership for Learning': Changing scenarios in basic schools in Ghana. Educational Management Administration and Leadership 42(5) 701-717. doi:10.1177/1741143213510510
Jull, S., Swaffield, S. and MacBeath, J. (2014) Changing perceptions is one thing…: barriers to transforming leadership and learning in Ghanaian basic schools. School Leadership & Management 34 (1) 69-84.
Alexandrou, A. and Swaffield, S. (2012) Editorial. Teacher leadership and professional development: perspectives, connections and prospects. Professional Development in Education 38(2) 159-167.
Swaffield, S. (2011) Getting to the heart of authentic Assessment for Learning. Assessment in Education: Principles, Policy and Practice 18 (4) 433-449.
Swaffield, S. (2009) The international state of professional development (Editorial). Professional Development in Education 35 (4) 505-509.
MacBeath, J., Swaffied, S. and Frost, D. (2009) Principled Narrative: the Carpe Vitam project International Journal of Leadership in Education 12 (3) 223-237.
Swaffield, S. (2008) Critical Friendship, dialogue and learning, in the context of Leadership for Learning. School Leadership and Management 28 (4) 323-336.
MacBeath, J., Frost, D. and Swaffield, S. (2008) Editorial. School Leadership and Managment 28 (4) 301-306.
Swafffield, S. (2007) Light touch critical friendship. Improving Schools 10 (3) 205-219.
Swaffield, S. (2007) Scaffolding discourse in multi-national collaborative enquiry: The Carpe Vitam Leadership for Learning project. Leading and Managing 12 (2) 10–18.
Swaffield, S. and MacBeath, J. (2006) Embedding Learning How to Learn in school policy: the challenge for leadership. Research Papers in Education 21 (2) 201-215.
Warwick, P. and Swaffield, S. (2006) Articulating and connecting frameworks of reflective practice and leadership: perspectives from 'Fast Track' trainee teachers. Reflective Practice 7 (2) 247–263.
MacBeath, J., Frost, D. and Swaffield, S. (2005) Researching Leadership for Learning in Seven Countries (The Carpe Vitam Project)'. Education Research and Perspectives 32 (2) 24 - 42.
Swaffield, S. (2005) No Sleeping Partners: relationships between head teachers and critical friends. School Leadership and Management 25 (1) 43 - 57.
Swaffield, S. and MacBeath, J. (2005) School self-evaluation and the role of a critical friend. Cambridge Journal of Education 35 (2) 239 - 252.
Swaffield, S. (2004) Critical friends: supporting leadership, improving learning. Improving Schools 7 (3) 267 - 278.
Other articles and research reports
Swaffield, S., Dempster, N., Frost, D. and MacBeath, J. (Eds.) (2014). Leadership for Learning Travels. Inform No. 17. Cambridge: University of Cambridge, Faculty of Education.
Major, L. and Swaffield, S. (2014). Introducing the Most Significant Change technique to support Leadership for Learning in Ghana. Commonwealth Centre for Education Report No. 14. University of Cambridge.
Swaffield, S., Jull, S. and Ampah-Mensah, A. (2013) Using Mobile Phone Texting to Support the Capacity of School Leaders in Ghana to Practise Leadership for Learning. Procedia – Social and Behavioural Sciences. 103, 26 November 2013, 1295-1302.
Frost, D., MacBeath, J. and Swaffield, S. (2013) Sustaining Teachers’ Professional Growth. Inform No. 15. Cambridge: University of Cambridge, Faculty of Education.
Swaffield, S. (2012) ‘Asistencia tecnica a escuelas pobres’ [Technical assistance to poor schools] El Mercurio (Chile) 3 September 2012.
Jull, S., MacBeath, J. and Swaffield, S. (2012) Leadership for Learning Ghana: Systematic Bottom-up Top-down change. Inform No. 13. Cambridge: University of Cambridge, Faculty of Education.
Swaffield, S. and MacBeath, J. (2009) Leading Leadership for Learning Resources. Cambridge: University of Cambridge Faculty of Education.

Frost, D., MacBeath, J., Swaffield, S. and Waterhouse, J. (2008) The Legacy of the Carpe Vitam Leadership for Learning Project. Inform No. 8. Cambridge: University of Cambridge Faculty of Education.
MacBeath, J. and Swaffield, S. (2007) Schools Facing Exceptionally Challenging Circumstances: A summary of the project evaluation. Inform No. 7. Cambridge: University of Cambridge Faculty of Education.
MacBeath, J., Frost, D., Swaffield, S. and Waterhouse, J. (2006) Making the Connections: The story of a seven country odyssey in search of a practical theory. Cambridge: University of Cambridge Faculty of Education.
Swaffield, S. (2005) Supporting principals through critical friendship. Prime Focus Spring 2005, 16 - 18.
Swaffield, S. (2005) Supporting principals through critical friendship'. Principal Matters Spring 2005, 25 - 27.
Swaffield, S. (2003) Critical Friendship Inform No. 3. Cambridge: University of Cambridge Faculty of Education.
Swaffield, S. (2003) Assessment: Servant or Dictator? Forum 45 (2) 39-43.
Books and book chapters
Swaffield, S. (2016) 'Multi-level leadership for Assessment for Learning, and the potential of critical friendship' in G. Johnson and N. Dempster (Eds.) Leadership in Diverse Learning Contexts. Rotterdam: Springer. p93-108
Pollard, A, with Black-Hawkins, K., Cliff Hodges, G., Dudley, P., James, M., Linklater, H., Swaffield, S., Swann, M., Turner, F., Warwick, P. Winterbottom, M. and Wolpert, M.A. (2014) Reflective Teaching in Schools. London: Bloomsbury.
Alexandrou, A. and Swaffield, S. (Eds.) (2013) Teacher Leadership and Professional Development. Abingdon: Routledge.
Swaffield, S. and Alexandrou, A. (2013) ‘Teacher leadership and professional development: perspectives, connections and prospects’ in A. Alexandrou and S. Swaffield (Eds.) Teacher Leadership and Professional Development. Abingdon: Routledge. p1-8.
Alexandrou, A., Swaffield, S. and MacBeath, J. (2013) ‘Scottish Teacher Leaders: Two accidental journeys enacting Leadership for Learning’ in A. Alexandrou and S. Swaffield (Eds.) Teacher Leadership and Professional Development. Abingdon: Routledge. p215-230.
MacBeath, J. and Swaffield, S. (2013) ‘Living with the colonial legacy: the Ghana story’ in S. Clarke and T. O’Donoghue (Eds.) School Level Leadership in Post-Conflict Societies. Abingdon: Routledge. p49-63.
Swaffield, S. and MacBeath, J. (2013) ‘Leadership for Learning’ in Wise, C., Bradshaw, P and Cartwright, M. (Eds.) Leading Professional Practice in Education. Milton Keynes: The Open University, and London: Sage. p9-24.
MacBeath, J., Swaffield, S., Oduro, G. and Ampah-Mensah, A. (2012) ‘Building Leadership Capacity, Enhancing Learning and Teaching in Ghanaian Basic Schools’ in J. MacBeath and M. Younger (Eds.) A Common Wealth of Learning: Millennium Goals Revisited. Abingdon: Routledge. p49-60.

Swaffield, S. (2011) 'Leading assessment for learning' in T. Townsend and J. MacBeath (Eds.) International Handbook of Leadership for Learning. Rotterdam: Springer.
Dudley, P. and Swaffield, S. (2008) Understanding and using assessment data, in S. Swaffield, (Ed) Unlocking Assessment: Understanding for reflection and application. London: Routledge.
Swaffield, S. (Ed) (2008) Unlocking Assessment: Understanding for reflection and application. London: Routledge.
Swaffield, S. (2008) Feedback - the central process in assessment for learning, in S. Swaffield (Ed) Unlocking Assessment: Understanding for reflection and application. London: Routledge.
Swaffield, S. and Dempster, N. (2008) A learning dialogue, in J. MacBeath and N. Dempster (Eds) Connecting Leadership and Learning: Principles for practice. London: Routledge.
Swaffield, S. and MacBeath, J. (2008) Leadership for Learning, in J. MacBeath and N. Dempster (Eds) Connecting Leadership and Learning: Principles for practice. London: Routledge.
Frost, D. and Swaffield, S. (2008) Leadership for Learning: Lessons from a seven country project, in J. MacBeath and Y.C.Cheng (Eds) Leadership for Learning: International Perspectives. Rotterdam: Sense Publications.
Pollard, A. with Anderson, J., Maddock, M., Swaffield, S., Warin, J. and Warwick, P. (2008) Reflective Teaching: Effective and evidence-informed professional practice, 3rd ed. London: Continuum.
James, M., Black, P., Carmichael, P., Drummond, M-J., Fox, A., MacBeath, J., Marshall, B., McCormick, R., Pedder, D., Procter, R., Swaffield, S., Swann, J., and Wiliam, D. (2007) Improving Learning How to Learn in classrooms, schools and networks. London: Routledge.
James, M., Black, P., Carmichael, P., Conner, C., Dudley, P., Fox, A., Frost, D., Honour, L., MacBeath, J., McCormick, R., Marshall, B., Pedder, D., Procter, R., Swaffield, S. and Wiliam, D. (2006) Learning How to Learn: tools for schools. London: Routledge.
MacBeath, J., Gray, J., Cullen, J., Frost, D., Steward, S. and Swaffield, S. (2006) Schools on the Edge: Responding to challenging circumstances. London: Paul Chapman.
Pollard, A. with Collins, J., Maddock, M., Simco, N., Swaffield, S., Warin, J., and Warwick, P. (2005) Reflective Teaching: Effective and evidence-informed professional practice, 2nd ed. London: Continuum.
Swaffield, S. and Dudley, P. (2003) Assessment Literacy For Wise Decisions, 2nd ed. London: ATL.
Harrison, C. and Swaffield, S. (2003) Formative Assessment in Action, in Richardson, C. (Ed) Whither Assessment? London: Qualifications and Curriculum Authority
Pollard, A. with contributions by Collins, J., Simco, N., Swaffield, S., Warin, J., and Warwick, P. (2002) Reflective Teaching: Effective and evidence-informed professional practice. London: Continuum.
Swaffield, S. and Dudley, P. (2002) Assessment Literacy For Wise Decisions. London: ATL.
Swaffield, S. (1999) The Role of the LEA in Supporting Assessment in the Primary School, in Conner, C. (Ed) Assessment in Action in the Primary School. London: Falmer Press.
Sue Swaffield
Profile
Research
Teaching
Selected Publications
^ Back To Top
About
Map & How To Reach Us
Study with Us
Undergraduate Study
PGCE Study
Graduate Study
Practitioner Professional Development
Research
Research Areas
Open Research Seminars
Working Paper Series
Research Projects
Academic Groups
Publications
Centres & Networks
Services
IT Service
AV Support Service
External Bookings
People
Library
Connect with us
Twitter
Facebook
Youtube
Our Address
184 Hills Road, Cambridge, CB2 8PQ, UK
+44 (0)1223 767600

Map & How to Reach Us
© 2017 University of Cambridge
University A-Z
Contact the University
Accessibility
Freedom of information
Terms and conditions
Study at Cambridge
Undergraduate
Graduate
International students
Continuing education
Executive and professional education
Courses in education
About the University
How the University and Colleges work
Visiting the University
Map
News
Events
Jobs
Giving to Cambridge
Research at Cambridge
News
Features
Discussion
Spotlight on...
About research at Cambridge