Skip to Content
College of Music
UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO BOULDER
Search this site
Enter the terms you wish to search for.
CU: Home • A to Z • Campus Map
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Home
About UsAdmissionsAcademicsPeopleEnsemblesEventsNewsVideoAlumniGiving
Breadcrumb
Home Matthew Dockendorf
Matthew Dockendorf
Assistant Director of Bands • Instructor, Conducting and Music Education
CONDUCTING • MUSIC EDUCATION
matthew.dockendorf@colorado.edu
303-492-5004
Imig Music Building 
E-170
Matthew Dockendorf is Assistant Director of Bands and Instructor of Music at the University of Colorado Boulder. Prior to his appointment at CU Boulder, Dockendorf studied at Michigan State University where he wrote drill and arranged music for the Spartan Marching Band and Spartan Brass. He served as conductor of the Campus Band and guest conducted the Wind Symphony, Symphony Band, Concert Band and Musique 21.
Matthew Dockendorf holds a Doctor of Musical Arts in Conducting from Michigan State University under Kevin L. Sedatole; a Master of Music in Conducting from The Ohio State University under Russel Mikkelson; and a Bachelor of Music Education from the University of Minnesota where he studied and performed under Craig Kirchhoff, Jerry Luckhardt, and Timothy Diem. After his undergraduate studies, Dockendorf taught at Lakeville South High School in Lakeville, Minnesota and was Associate Director of the Calhoun Isles Community Band in Minneapolis. 
Currently, his transcriptions of Paul Hindemith’s Symphony in E-flat for Concert Band and his Doctor of Musical Arts treatise of Silvestre Revueltas’ Troka for Wind Ensemble are under consideration for publication.
At CU, Dockendorf conducts the Campus and Concert Band, assists with the "Golden Buffalo" Marching Band, directs the men’s and women’s basketball band and teaches courses in music education.
View Dr. Dockendorf's Curriculum Vitae
Bands
Student Information
Working with a pianist
Scheduling a recital
Recording services
Howard B. Waltz Music Library
Student organizations
More student information >>
Faculty Information
Scheduling and event promotion
Piano technicians
Faculty planning calendar
Submitting faculty news
Faculty forms
More faculty information >>
Community Engagement
Teacher License Renewal
Honor Band
CU Band Day
Hire a Musician
Sign up for the weekly email
More community information >>
Summer Programs
CU NOW
Panoramic Flutist
Conducting Symposia
Summer Music Academy
Alexander Technique Course
More on summer programs >>
College of Music
University of Colorado Boulder
301 UCB
Boulder, Colorado 80309-0301
303-492-6352
University of Colorado Boulder
© Regents of the University of Colorado
Privacy • Legal & Trademarks