Toggle navigation
CQUni Staff Profile
Associate Professor Nanjappa Ashwath
Agriculture, Science and the Environment
Agriculture, Science & the Environment / School of Health, Medical and Applied Sciences
Associate Professor
PhD (ANU Canberra); MSc (Agri); BSc (Agri) (UAS Bangalore), MAIAST; MEIANZ
Contact Details
Email: n.ashwath@cqu.edu.au
Phone: (07) 4930 9595 - Ext: 59595
Office Location
Rockhampton North
Bldg 361/ Room G37
CQIRP
Ibis Av
About Me
About Me
General
Research
Expertise
Interests
Publications
Teaching
Links
Associate Professor Nanjappa Ashwath is an active researcher, lecturer and a post graduate supervisor. His research focuses on Australian plants, which ranges from seed biology, tissue culture, genetics, plant propagation, contaminated site remediation to ecosystem reconstruction. He teaches into botany, land management, landscape ecology and environmental science courses. He currently supervises more than 10 PhD and Master’s students most of which come from developing countries. Assoc Prof Ashwath has won Vice Chancellor’s award for research. Prior to joining CQUni he had served as a Research Scientist at CSIRO and at the federal Environmental Protection Agency.
 Assoc Prof Ashwath has a PhD from the Australian National University and a Master and Bachelor degrees in Agriculture. He specializes in selecting Australian native plants for land management and rehabilitation and biofuel production. Over the past 30 years, he has worked on mine site rehabilitation, mangrove restoration, landfill remediation, heavy metal contaminated site remediation and rare and threatened plant conservation. He is currently involved in selecting native plants for biofuel production, and quantifying the benefits of adding biochar to improve plant growth, carbon sequestration and soil health.
  He was one of the Chief Investigators of an ARC sponsored national phytocapping project ($3.3 million) and was the head of the Revegetation Research Division at federal EPA, Jabiru. He is the recipient of Vice Chancellor’s award for research (CQUniversity) and Rotary University Fellowship that was targeted to promote Australian plants in India. Assoc Prof Ashwath has produced over 200 scientific publications and attracted more than $5 million research grants. He is a member of several professional organisations and assists community groups with plant identification and plant selection for land rehabilitation.
Bioethanol from Agave tequilana
Beauty Leaf Tree for biodiesel production


























CONNECT
Phone
13 27 86
From overseas +61 7 4930 9000
Connect with the VC
Give to CQUni
CQUniversity Australia acknowledges the traditional owners of the land upon which we stand.
Sitemap Copyright Disclaimer Accessibility Feedback Policy Privacy Right to Information ASQA VET Quality Framework CRICOS Provider Code: 00219C ASQA National Provider Number 40939
CQUniversity Australia is a trading name of Central Queensland University.
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Youtube
Instagram
Blogger