Skip to Navigation
Skip to Content
Skip to Footer
FUTURE STUDENTS
CURRENT STUDENTS
RESEARCH AND TEACHING
PARTNERS AND COMMUNITY
Site Search
Enter the terms you wish to search for.
You are here
UTS
Staff
Leila Gholizadeh
Dr Leila Gholizadeh
Biography
Connect on LinkedIn
Connect on ResearchGate
Dr Leila Gholizadeh, a lecturer in the UTS Faculty of Health, has extensive clinical and research experience in the area of cardiovascular disease. Her research focuses on primary, secondary, and tertiary prevention of cardiovascular diseases and, in particular, understanding individual and socio-cultural factors that influence heart-disease management, such as risk perception and causal attributions.
Leila is collaborating with research scholars in Australia and internationally on several research projects that aim to improve outcomes for patients with heart disease. These projects address cardiac rehabilitation, quality of life, depression, and patients’ experiences of living with heart disease.
Professional
Member of Editorial Board for the Journal of Health Promotion Management
Member of Sigma Theta Tau International (STTI) Honor Society of Nursing
A member of Council on Cardiovascular Nursing and Allied Professions (CCNAP)
A member of the International Council on Women’s Health Issues, Sigma Theta Tau International
A member of the Australian Cardiovascular and Rehabilitation Association
More +
Lecturer, Faculty of Health
Associate Member, Australian Research Centre in Complementary and Integrative Medicine (ARCCIM)
Core Member, CHSP - Health Services and Practice
Medical and Surgical Nursing, Doctor of Philosophy
Member, Nurses and Midwives Board of NSW
  Email
Leila.Gholizadeh@uts.edu.au
Phone
+61 2 9514 4814
ORCID
0000-0002-6711-3312
Edit your profile
Research
Teaching Areas
Publications
Research Interests
Research expertise
Prevention of cardiovascular disease at primary, secondary and tertiary levels
Risk perception and risk communication
Causal attributions
Behaviour and lifestyle change
Depression in cardiac patients
Quality of life
Recovery from heart disease
Can supervise: Yes
Areas of research supervision
Prevention of cardiovascular disease at primary, secondary and tertiary levels
Patient causal attributions, risk perception and risk communication
Behaviour and lifestyle change, depression, quality of life, and recovery from heart disease.
Apply for a research degree
2013 - ongoing
2010 - ongoing
2010 - 2013 (completed)
2012 - ongoing
Co-supervisor of a PhD student, Sarah Shishegar. Sarah’s project is looking at acculturation process and its effect on health practices in Iranian immigrants in Australia. The Faculty of Health, UTS, Australia.
Co - supervisor of a master degree student, Nittaya Caruana. Nittaya’s project is looking at sleep during and after cardiothoracic ICU and psychological outcomes in recovery. The Faculty of Health, UTS, Australia.
Co-supervisor of a PhD student, Khadijeh Yazdi. Khadijeh’s project is looking at exploring the nature of relatives’ participation in the care of elderly inpatients. The Faculty of Health, Tehran University, Iran.
Co-supervisor of a PhD student, Danielle Hagarty. Danielle’s project is looking at exploring physical activity among Middle Eastern and North African Born women living in Australia. The Faculty of Education, UTS. Australia.










































ABOUT UTS
The University
Maps and facilities
UTS governance
Faculties
Privacy statement
Disclaimer
LIBRARY
Search catalogue
What's on
Help and resources
NEWSROOM
Events
Find an expert
Media centre
STAFF
Staff Connect
Webmail
Staff Directory
Jobs at UTS
University of Technology Sydney
City campus
15 Broadway
Ultimo NSW 2007
Telephone
+61 2 9514 2000
Student inquiries
ask.uts.edu.au
Postal address
P.O. Box 123, Broadway, NSW 2007
See all
contacts
© Copyright UTS - CRICOS Provider No: 00099F - 21 June 2017 8:00 AM. The page is authorised by Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Vice-President (Corporate Services)