The University of Southampton
Courses
Undergraduate
Postgraduate taught
Postgraduate research
Foundation Years
How to apply
Free online learning
Continuing professional development
Prospectuses
Pre-sessional English language courses
University life
Choose Southampton
Fees & funding
Accommodation
International students
Study abroad & exchange
Campus life
City life
Careers & employability
Arts
Learning & teaching
Key dates
Research
Our impact
Facilities
Centres and institutes
Funding
Research & Innovation Services
Partnerships
Commercialising research
Researcher support
Research integrity
Business
Why work with us?
Collaboration
Consultancy
Commercialisation
Use our facilities
Connect with our students
How we operate
Suppliers
Make a business enquiry
Global
International Office
Partnerships map
Partnerships and initiatives
Visiting fellowships
Accessibility Tools
About
Visit
Alumni
Departments
News
Events
Contact
×
Electronics and Computer Science➞Who we are
Achievements
People
Facilities
Our approach
Our university
Promoting women in science & engineering
History of ECS
Right
Home
>Electronics and Computer Science>Who we are>People>
Telephone:
+442380593520
Email:
tjk@ecs.soton.ac.uk
Dr Tom J Kazmierski
Academic Staff
Tom J Kazmierski is an Associate Professor the Electronic Systems and Software Research Group at the Faculty of Physical Sciences and Engineering, University of Southampton, UK. He received the M.S. degree in Electronic Engineering from the Warsaw University of Technology, Warsaw, Poland, in 1973 and the Ph.D. degree from the Military University of Technology, Warsaw, in 1976.   He pursues research into numerical modelling, simulation, and synthesis techniques for computer-aided design of very large scale integration (VLSI) circuits and mixed-technology systems. From 1989 to 1990 he was a Lecturer in Microelectronics at the Griffith University in Brisbane, Australia. From 1990 to 1991 Tom worked as a Visiting Research Scientist at the IBM VLSI Technology Division, San Jose, CA, USA where he developed and patented synchronisation techniques for multi-solver simulation backplanes. He has contributed to the development of the VHDL-AMS standard by the IEEE, served as Chair of the IEEE DASC P1076.1 (VHDL-AMS) Working Group from 1999 to 2005. He has published over 160 papers, edited three books, and given a number of conference keynotes, invited talks and tutorials mostly in the area of analogue and mixed signal synthesis and hardware description languages. In recent years he has been working on simulation techniques, applications of VHDL-AMS and other hardware description languages to high-level system modelling and synthesis, including automated analogue and mixed-signal synthesis for ASIC design, synthesis of artificial VLSI neural networks, performance modelling of mixed-technology electromechanical systems and energy-harvester powered sensor nodes.
Research
Professional
Publications
Contact
Research interests
Projects
Next Generation Energy-Harvesting Electronics - Holistic Approach
Share this profile
FacebookGoogle+TwitterWeibo
Information for
Visitors
Staff & students
Schools & colleges
Researchers
Employers & recruiters
Parents & guardians
Students from outside UK/EU
Contact us
+44(0)23 8059 5000
+44(0)23 8059 3131
Address
University of Southampton
University Road
Southampton
SO17 1BJ
United Kingdom
Get directions ›
Connect with us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
LinkedIn
YouTube
Download University of Southampton prospectus
Download a PDF of our prospectus or order a printed copy to be delivered to your door.
Download a prospectus
© 2017 University of Southampton
Site map
Freedom of information
Terms & conditions
Contact
Jobs
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue without changing your settings, we will assume that you are happy to receive cookies on the University of Southampton website.
×