Skip to main content
The University of New Mexico Health Sciences Center
HSC Admissions
Directory
more
College of Pharmacy
Admissions
Education 
Clinical Innovation & Practice 
Research 
People 
About Us 
Departments 
Contact Us
UNM HSCHomePeopleFacultyChangjian Feng
Changjian "Jim" Feng, PhD
Associate Professor: Pharmaceutical Sciences
Contact Information
Office Location: MRF 208 CU9
Phone: (505) 925-4326
Email: CFeng@salud.unm.edu
Academic Career
Dr. Feng was educated in China, receiving his B. Sc. in chemistry (1992) and his M. Sc. in inorganic chemistry (1995) from Central China Normal University. He received his PhD in bioinorganic chemistry from Nanjing University in 1998.
Research Interests
Dr. Feng is an expert in biochemistry and biophysics of metalloproteins. His laboratory is known for its use of multidisciplinary approaches to study molecular mechanisms of metalloproteins in medicine and toxicology. The laboratory is active in the use of cutting-edge approaches across the broad fields of chemistry, biochemistry, physics and chemical biology (including laser flash photolysis, pulsed EPR, computational chemistry and site-directed mutagenesis). The goal is to understand what the function of a biological relevant metal site is, how it goes about to achieve its function, and what factors dictate its function. His current primary research focus is on regulation mechanism of nitric oxide synthase (NOS), a flavo-hemoprotein responsible for biosynthesis of nitric oxide (NO), a ubiquitous signaling and effector molecule in mammalian cell biology. Recent studies of NOS proteins by Dr. Feng demonstrate that domain motions and interdomain docking play an important role in NOS isoform function by modulating key electron transfer processes. Molecular mechanisms of NOS regulation, once fully understood, are potentially key targets for development of selective new pharmaceuticals for treating a wide range of diseases that currently lack effective treatments. Dr. Feng has published more than 70 scientific manuscripts, is an active NIH reviewer and also serves as referee for NSF, AHA, the French National Research Agency and the Italian Ministry of Health.
Professional Memberships
American Chemical Society and its Inorganic Division and Bioinorganic Subdivision, Full Member
Society of Biological Inorganic Chemistry
American Heart Association
Nitric Oxide Society
Sigma Xi, Full Member
Chinese-American Chemistry Professor Association
UNM Health Sciences Center
Education
Academic Calendars
Colleges & Schools
Degrees & Certificates
Graduate Studies
Schools & Colleges
All Academic Programs
College of Nursing
College of Pharmacy
College of Population Health
School of Medicine
Research
HSC Research Programs
Meet Our Researchers
Volunteer for Clinical Research
Student Resources
Course Catalog
Financial Aid
Library
Events Calendar
Bookstore
  Find a program
  Apply now
  Find a location
© The University of New Mexico
Albuquerque, NM 87131, (505) 277-0111
New Mexico's Flagship University
     more at social.unm.edu
Accessibility |Legal |Contact |For Employees |Jobs |Diversity |UNM Health