Skip to main content
College of Education, The University of Hawaiʻi at Mānoa
Academic Departments
Maps & Directions
UH Mānoa
Find Faculty/Staff
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Pinterest
Search form
Search this site
Undergraduate
Graduate & PD
Admissions & Advising
About the College
Research & Units
Giving & Alumni
Happenings

COE Faculty & Staff
All Departments
Center on Disability Studies
Curriculum Research & Development Group
Dean's Office
Curriculum Studies
Educational Administration
Educational Foundations
Educational Psychology
Learning Design and Technology
Fiscal Office
Institute for Teacher Education
Institute for Teacher Education - Elementary
Institute for Teacher Education - M.Ed. in Teaching
Institute for Teacher Education - Secondary
Kinesiology and Rehabilitation Science
Office of Student Academic Services
Special Education
Technology & Distance Programs
Find Faculty/Staff
COE Faculty and Staff > Educational Foundations > Phan Le Ha
Phan Le Ha
Professor
DEPARTMENT(S)
Educational Foundations
DEGREE(S)
2005 PhD Monash University, Australia
AREA(S) OF INTEREST
Sociology of Knowledge and Education; Language, Society, and Education
Language - Culture - Pedagogy - Identity; Higher Education (including policy, practice and pedagogy surrounding the internationalisation of education, international students, academic identity, intercultural issues); TESOL; and Writing
BRIEF BIOGRAPHY
Aloha,

I am Phan Le Ha (also known/written as Phan Le-Ha, Ha Phan, Ha Le Phan, Le Ha Phan, and Le-Ha Phan), a Full Professor in the Department of Educational Foundations, College of Education, the University of Hawaii at Manoa. Prior to this appointment, I was with the Faculty of Education, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia. I have also held adjunct and honorary positions at universities in Australia, Vietnam, and the UK.

At the University of Hawaii at Manoa I am also the Special Assistant to the Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs in leading the University's engagement with Southeast Asia.

Series Co-Editor, New Perspectives in Language and Education, Multilingual Matters Publishing House, UK
Editor, Teaching Issues Section - TESOL Quarterly
Editorial Board Member: Journal of Language and Education; Inter-Asia Cultural Studies ; Journal of Vietnamese Studies; Journal of Language, Identity and Education; Transitions: Journal of Transient Migration

I have been doing much research on international higher education, academic mobility, identity-language-pedagogy-culture studies, globalization and internationalization of education and knowledge production, and TESOL in a variety of regions, with a particular focus on Australia, Southeast Asia, East Asia, and the Middle East. With my recent shift to Hawaii, I am developing projects to examine issues surrounding global and international engagement and new initiatives in education in North America and the Pacific region at all levels.

Founder of Engaging with Vietnam: http://www.engagingwithvietnam.net; www.engagingwithvietnam.org

One highlight of my work is the Engaging with Vietnam Initiative, which I have been developing since 2009. This Initiative has brought together scholars, researchers, policy makers, diplomatic officials and the general public to collaboratively and critically engage with knowledge production and scholarship building related to Vietnam and beyond. Annual scholarly conferences are a major part of the Initiative.

I have been advising many students' research projects on a wide range of topics related to my expertise.

My publication details can also be found at: http://monuni.academia.edu/LeHaPhan.

Mahalo and Aloha,
Phan Le Ha/Phan Le-Ha
Contact Information
Office Phone
808 956 7328
Office
Email
halephan@hawaii.edu
Homepage
Visit Phan Le Ha's homepage
Curriculum Vitae
Download


SCHOLARLY WORKS
Books
Phan, H. L. (2017). Transnational Education Crossing 'the West' and 'Asia': Adjusted Desire, Transformative Mediocrity, and Neo-colonial Disguise. London and New York: Routledge.   Publication Details
Chowdhury, R., & Phan, H. L. (2014). Desiring TESOL and international education: Market abuse and exploitation. UK, US, Canada: Multilingual Matters.   Publication Details
Phan, H. L., & Baurain, B. (2011). Voices, identities, negotiations, and conflicts: Writing academic English across cultures. UK: Emerald Press.   Publication Details
Baurain, B., & Phan, H. L. (2010). Multilevel mixed ability volume, classroom practice series. Washington, DC: TESOL.   Publication Details
Phan, H. L. (2008). Teaching English as an international language: Identity, resistance and negotiation. Clevedon, UK: Multilingual Matters.   Publication Details
Book Chapters
Phan, H. L., & Bao, D. (2017). Silence as literacy: Second language learners in Australia.. In Nichols, S. & Snowden, C. (Ed.), Languages and Literacies as Mobile and Placed Resources, (pp. 170-184). London and New York: Routledge.   Publication Details
Phan, H. L. (2016). Global English, Postcolonialism, and Education. In Encyclopedia of Educational Philosophy and Theory, (pp. 1-6). Singapore: Springer Science+Business Media.   Publication Details
Phan, H. L. (2015). Unequal Englishes in Imagined Intercultural Interactions. In Tupas, R. (Ed.), Unequal Englishes: The Politics of Englishes Today, (pp. 223-243). Hampshire and New York: Palgrave Macmillan.   Publication Details
Phan, H. L., Dat, B., & Ha, V. H. (2014). Language policies in modern-day Vietnam: Changes and challenges. In Peter Sercombe and Ruanni Tupas (Ed.), Language, Identities and Education in Southeast Asia, (pp. 232-244). Hampshire and New York: Palgrave.   Publication Details
Phan, H. L., & Linh, L. T. (2013). Living the tensions: Moral dilemmas in English language teaching. In Terri Seddon, Jenny Ozga, & John Levin (Ed.), Routledge world yearbook of education 2013, (pp. 220-235). USA, UK, Canada: Routledge.   Publication Details
Huyen, L. T. T., & Phan, H. L. (2013). Problematizing the culture of learning English in Vietnam: Revisiting teacher identity. In Martin Cortazzi & Lixian Jin (Ed.), Researching cultures of learning, (pp. 248-264). New York: Palgrave Macmillan.   Publication Details
Bright, D., & Phan, H. L. (2012). 'White' native-English-speaking teachers of English in Vietnam: Negotiations of identity and the politics of English language teaching. In Lawrence Jun Zhang, Rani Rubdy, Lubna Alsagoff (Ed.), Asian Englishes: Changing perspectives in a globalised world, (pp. 121-140). Singapore, London, New York, Toronto, Sydney, Munich, Paris, Capetown, Hong Kong, Montreal: Pearson.   Publication Details
Phan, H. L. (2011). Fighting for the role of the nation state in knowledge mobilisation and educational research: An autoethnography of a mobile Vietnamese scholar. In Tara Fenwick, Lesley Farrell (Ed.), Knowledge mobilization and educational research, (pp. 100-112). London: Routledge.   Publication Details
Phan, H. L., Que, P. V., & McPherrron, P. (2011). English language teachers as moral guides in Vietnam and China: Maintaining and re-traditionalizing morality. In Janette Ryan (Ed.), Education reform in China: Changing concepts, contexts and practices, (pp. 132-157). London, New York: Routledge.   Publication Details
Phan, H. L. (2011). Problematising ESL/EFL writing: An introduction. In Le Ha Phan, Bradley Baurain (Ed.), Voices, identities, negotiations, and conflicts: Writing academic English across cultures, (pp. xi-xxi). UK: Emerald.   Publication Details
Phan, H. L. (2011). The writing and culture nexus: Writers' comparisons of Vietnamese and English academic writing. In Le Ha Phan, Bradley Baurain (Ed.), Voices, Identities, Negotiations, and Conflicts: Writing Academic English Across Cultures, (pp. 23-40). UK: Emerald.   Publication Details
Le, T. B., & Phan, H. L. (2009). Examining the foreignness of EFL global textbooks in the Vietnamese classroom: Issues and proposals. In Jayakaran Mukundan (Ed.), Readings on ELT materials III, (pp. 197-212). Malaysia: Pearson Longman.   Publication Details
Journal Articles
Phan, H. L. (2016). English and identity: A reflection and implications for future research. Journal of Asian Pacific Communication, 26(2), 348-355.   Publication Details
Phan, H. L., & Barnawi, O. (2015). Where English, neoliberalism, desire and internationalization are alive and kicking: higher education in Saudi Arabia today. Language and Education, 2015, 1-23.   Publication Details
Phan, H. L. (2014). The politics of naming: Critiquing 'learner-centred' and 'teacher as facilitator' in English language and humanities classrooms. Asia-Pacific Journal of Teacher Education, 42, 1-14.   Publication Details
Phan, H. L., & Barnawi, O. (2014). From western TESOL classrooms to home practice: a case study with two ‘privileged’ Saudi teachers. Critical Studies in Education, 57, 1-18.   Publication Details
Phan, H. L. (2014). Review of "The World Bank and education: critiques and alternatives". Compare: A Journal of Comparative and International Education, 2014, 1-3.   Publication Details
Phan, H. L. (2013). Review of "Education in South-East Asia". Cambridge Journal of Education, 2013, 1-3.   Publication Details
Parr, G., Phan, H. L., Faine, M., & Seddon, T. (2013). Globalisation and its challenges for history teaching. Agora: History Teachers' Association of Victoria, Collingwood Victoria Australia, 48, 19-26.   Publication Details
Phan, H. L., Kho, J., & Chng, B. (2013). Nation building, English as an international language, medium of instruction, and language debate: Malaysia and possible ways forward. Journal of International Education and Comparative Education, 2, 58-71.   Publication Details
Phan, H. L. (2013). Issues surrounding English, the internationalisation of higher education and national cultural identity in Asia: A focus on Japan. Critical Studies in Education, 54, 160-175.   Publication Details
Phan, H. L., & Li, B. (2012). Silence as resistance, choice, right and strategy among Chinese me generation students: Implication for Pedagogy. Discourse: Studies in The Cultural Politics of Education, 35, 233-248.   Publication Details
Phan, H. L. (2009). English as an international language: International students and identity formation. Journal of Language and Intercultural Communication, 9, 201-214.   Publication Details
Phan, H. L. (2009). Strategic, passionate, but academic: Am I allowed in my writing?. Journal of English for Academic Purposes, 8, 134-146.   Publication Details
Chowdhury, R., & Phan, H. L. (2008). Reflecting on western TESOL training and communicative language teaching: Bangladeshi perspectives. Asia Pacific Journal of Education, 28, 305-316.   Publication Details
Logo for the University of Hawaii at Manoa
Logo for the College of Education
© 2015 UHM College of Education
1776 University Avenue
Everly Hall Room 128
Honolulu, Hawai‘i 96822
Webmaster
Site Map
Contact Us
Accessibility Info
Gainful Employment Info
Apply Now (Makalei)
Research Units: CDS
Research Units: CRDG
My UH
Laulima
UH Mānoa
UH System
Student Tech Support/ITS
Logo for the National Council for Accreditation of Teacher Education