SKIP TO CONTENT
ANR @ MSU
CANR
Department of Horticulture
Search Box
DEPARTMENT OF
HORTICULTURE
Main Menu
Home
Department
Students
Visitors And Alumni
Our Gardens
People
Faculty
Staff
Graduate Students
Labs/Projects
GIVING
Susan Gruber
Undergraduate Advisor and Instructor
M.S.
1066 Bogue St, Room A164
East Lansing, MI 48824
Phone: 517-353-0326
Email: grubers@msu.edu
Area of Expertise: Undergraduate Advisor and Instructor
Quick links: Education   Teaching   Academic Advising
Susan is available to help current and prospective students understand the requirements and options for Undergraduate degree programs in the Department of Horticulture. 
Office hours:  Monday - Friday,  9am-2 pm. Other times by appointment.  Students needing assistance can schedule an advising appointment online at https://www.egr.msu.edu/test/adcalendar,  e-mail grubers@msu.edu, or call (517) 355-5191 x 1326.
Education and Background Information
Bachelor of Science, Horticulture, Michigan State University, 1988
Master of Science, Horticulture, Michigan State University, 1992
Undergraduate Advisor: August 2007 - present
Instructor and Program Coordinator, MSU Institute of Agricultural Technology
Landscape and Nursery Program: 1992-2000
Horticulturist, C.E.Lewis Landscape Arboretum: 1992-2000
Teaching
Susan teaches HRT 109:  Introduction to Applied Plant Science
Academic Advising
Susan Gruber advises students majoring or interested in majoring in Horticulture or Crop and Soil Sciences, and students wishing to complete Minors in Horticulture, Agronomy or Plant, Animal and Microbial Biotechnology. 
If you are not an MSU student and would like to meet with Susan, please contact her directly at grubers@msu.edu or (517) 353-0326 to schedule an appointment.
MSU students should use the Student Success Dashboard calendar system to schedule an appointment.   Students are always encouraged to stop by the Advising office at A164 Plant and Soil Sciences for quick questions, but appointments should be scheduled for more in-depth inquiries and prior to enrollment.
How to use the appointment system:
You need your MSU Net ID and password to log on to the appointment system.
There may be a time when you must cancel your appointment. The system will allow you to do so, or you may contact Susan directly at grubers@smu.edu or (517) 353-0326 so other students may take advantage of the time slot.
Instructions for making an appointment on the Student Success Dashboard
Log on to https://msu.campus.eab.com/.
Click on the [GET ADVISING] button on the top right of the page.
Select AG & NATURAL RESOURCES ADVISING and then either HORTICULTURE or CROP and SOIL SCIENCES as the “Reason” for your appointment.  Biotech Minors may select either of these options. Then select Next.
The location should show PLANT AND SOIL SCIENCE A164.
Click in the box that says “Any Adviser”.  You will see just one adviser listed, Susan Gruber.  Select Susan as the adviser you want to see.  Then select Next.
The next step will be to select a specific date and time for you to meet with Susan.
Before finalizing your appointment it would be helpful if you added a note in the comment box - “Is there anything specific you would like to discuss with Susan?”
Instructions for cancelling an appointment on the Student Success Dashboard
Log on to https://msu.campus.eab.com.
On the right side of the page, you will see your “Upcoming Appointments”. Open the appointment you wish to cancel.
A new pop up screen appears. Select “Cancel Appointment” on the bottom left.
You will need to select a reason for your cancelation and select “Mark as Cancelled”.
Your confirmation will appear and a message will be sent to the advisor. That time will now be open on your calendar as well as the advisor’s calendar.
Follow Horticulture using RSS
Call us: (517) 353-0359 Contact Information Sitemap Accessibility Privacy Disclaimer
Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 Visit: msu.edu MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.
SPARTANS WILL. © Michigan State University
Last Updated 08/04/2016