Researchers @ Brown
Manage your profile
Home
People
Organizations
Help
Curriculum Vitae
email
Surendra Sharma Professor of Pediatrics (Research), Professor of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine (Research)
Dr. Sharma is Professor of Pediatrics at Women and Infants Hospital of Rhode Island and Deputy Director of Center of Biomedical Research Excellence for Perinatal Biology. Dr. Sharma has been involved in the Pathobiology and MCB graduate programs of Brown University. He was a member of the founding Steering Committee of Pathobiology Graduate Program and currently serves on the committee. His research interests focus on the biology of pregnancy complications with emphasis on immunobiology, more...
Brown Affiliations
Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Pediatrics
  Research
  Background
  Affiliation
  View All
  research overview
The Sharma laboratory has a multifaceted research program focused on answering the question of why some women are predisposed to pregnancy complications. We believe that these problems may originate from abnormal immune and hormonal responses during pregnancy. The hypothesis is that anti-inflammatory intrauterine milieu controlled by cytokines and pregnancy hormones is crucial to fetal development and pregnancy success.
research statement
Dr. Surendra Sharma is Professor and Deputy Director of Center of Biomedical Research Excellence at Women and Infants Hospital—Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island, USA. He is an internationally known investigator in the field of Immune Programming of Pregnancy and Associated Disorders and was recently awarded the Honorary Doctor of Medicine Degree from Linkoping University Faculty of Health Sciences, Linkoping, Sweden. He serves as a permanent member on review boards for the NIH anmore...
funded research
































































Completed:

RO1-HD41701-01
NIH/NICHD
Principal Investigator: Surendra Sharma 15%
Polymorphisms in IL-10 Locus Predispose to Preterm Birth
Period: 09/01/2002-08/31/2007 $257,000/yr
The major goal of this project is to investigate the etiology of
Preterm births with a focus on the incidence in African American population.
These studies will focus on the immunogenetic role of IL-10 in this pregnancy disorder.

RO 1-HL65719-01A1
NIH/NHLBI
Principal Investigator: Jack Nassau (S. Sharma, Women more...












©2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO
About
Contact Us