Skip to Navigation
Skip to Content
Skip to Footer
FUTURE STUDENTS
CURRENT STUDENTS
RESEARCH AND TEACHING
PARTNERS AND COMMUNITY
Site Search
Enter the terms you wish to search for.
You are here
UTS
Staff
Elizabeth Savage
Professor Elizabeth Savage
Biography
Elizabeth Savage is Professor in the Economics Discipline Group in the UTS Business School. She was Head of Economics from 2011 to 2014. Prior to 2011 she led the Quantitative Analysis of Health Policy program in the UTS Centre for Health Economics Research and Evaluation. She is on the editorial boards of The Economic Record and the Australian Journal of Labour Economics. She is a past President of the Economic Society of Australia (NSW) and she has been an invited member of the Scientific and Finance Committees for the International Health Economics Association.
Savage is an applied microeconomist who has had a major impact on behavioural modelling and policy evaluation in Australia in a range of areas: taxation and welfare reform, the labour market and health economics. Her research modelling the equity and efficiency effects of taxation led to an invitation to contribute the chapter on Taxation to the Cambridge Handbook of Social Sciences in Australia. This won the Australian Publishers’ Association Award for Best Scholarly Reference Book in 2004. Her 1989 Journal of Public Economics paper is cited in a survey of empirical welfare measurement in the Journal of Economic Literature. In 2004 her research initiated a methodological debate on welfare measurement in discrete choice, stated preference health settings, which changed the practice in the estimation of welfare impacts from discrete choice experiments.
She one of Australia's leading researchers on health care funding, private health insurance, health service use, and public-private mix in health care delivery. Her 2003 Journal of Health Economics paper was the first to quantify the extent of moral hazard associated with private health insurance in Australian and one of the first internationally to jointly model insurance status and hospital use. Her research with Ellis modelled a suite of health policy reforms, showing that the 50% increase in private health insurance enrolment in 2000 was driven less by the premium reduction than by behavioural responses to the deadline and advertising. Her research with Doiron and Jones, was the first to find favourable health insurance selection in Australia and investigate the factors driving this. Her health research has twice been awarded the Australian Health Economics Society Research Prize (2009 and 2013). It also led to an invitation to contribute to the second OECD book on elective surgery waiting times. Her prominent role in health economics research is recognised by her election as a Board Member of the ARC-funded Economic Design Network and the invitation to establish the Health Economics subgroup of the Network.
As Chief or Principal Investigator she has been awarded $A9 million in peer-reviewed research funding: including $A6.826 million for an NHMRC program of research on welfare measurement and policy evaluation in the health sector; $A880,000 from the ARC for a project investigating the impacts of public hospital waiting times on the choice between private and public health care; and $A657,000 from the ARC for research on health expenditure and risk adjustment. She is also an Associate Investigator in the ARC Centre of Excellence on Population Ageing Research, awarded $A12.7 million in 2011.
Professional
Elizabeth Savage is a leading researcher on the health care sector and health policy. Throughout her career her experience is at the interface between academic research and policy.
In 1987 she advised the federal government Office of the Economic Planning and Advisory Council on taxation, labour supply, savings and risk-taking. In 1989 she wrote a commissioned paper on the distributional effects of the wage accord for Monash University’s Public Sector Management Institute. As a consultant to the World Bank, she prepared a report on behaviourally consistent analysis of policy reforms. Over a period in the early 1990s , she provided regular advice on the pricing of public services to the NSW Social Policy Directorate. She also represented the Directorate at Government Pricing Tribunal hearings on water pricing policy. In 1999 she was one of five economists invited by the Productivity Commission to prepare a paper on the future direction of microeconomic policy in Australia.
She has undertaken detailed analysis of health policy in a range of applied areas and for a range of clients (Australian Department of Health and Ageing, NSW Department of Health, Victorian Department of Treasury and Finance, NSW Treasury). In 2003 her research on bulk-billing and general practice led to an invitation to write a report for the Australian Department of Health and Ageing on reform proposals for general practice. From 2005 to 2011 she was a member of a health economics advisory panel for the Australian Department of Health and Ageing (DHA). From 2006 to 2010 she was an invited member of the Resource Distribution Formula Technical Committee for the NSW Department of Health, overseeing funding to public hospitals.
In 2008 she was invited to prepare a submission and give evidence to Senate Standing Committee on Economics Inquiry into the Tax Laws Amendment (Medicare Levy Surcharge Thresholds) Bill. In 2009 she was an invited participant at the Productivity Commission Inquiry into ‘The Performance of Public and Private Hospital Systems’.
In 2009 she was lead member of the ‘Review of the Extended Medicare Safety Net’ for DHA. The review resulted in a number of policy changes introduced in the 2009-2010 Federal Budget. In 2011 she led the team commissioned by DHA to review the 2009-10 policy changes (‘Extended Medicare Safety Net: Review Capping Arrangements Report’). The second review found that, while the capping arrangements reduced the government’s financial exposure to increases in provider fees for capped items, it had a number of unintended consequences (increased volume, expanded eligibility and increased fees for uncapped items) again resulting in policy change.
Recognition of her research achievements is demonstrated by her invitation to the Long Term National Health Strategy stream at the Australia 2020 Summit, the only academic economist invited to the group.
More +
Links
Elizabeth Savage at IDEAS
Professor, Economics Discipline Group
Core Member, CENSOC
Core Member, Centre for Policy and Market Design
BSc (Arch) Hons 1 (Syd), MSc (Econ) (LSE)
Download CV  (PDF 82 Kb, 11 pages)
Email
Elizabeth.Savage@uts.edu.au
Phone
+61 2 9514 3202
ORCID
0000-0002-2690-3975
Edit your profile
Research
Publications
Projects
Research Interests
Private health insurance and health sector use; risk and risk selection; health system performance; behavioural modelling, welfare measurement and policy evaluation; payment mechanisms for health care providers; screening programs and access to health; obesity.





































ABOUT UTS
The University
Maps and facilities
UTS governance
Faculties
Privacy statement
Disclaimer
LIBRARY
Search catalogue
What's on
Help and resources
NEWSROOM
Events
Find an expert
Media centre
STAFF
Staff Connect
Webmail
Staff Directory
Jobs at UTS
University of Technology Sydney
City campus
15 Broadway
Ultimo NSW 2007
Telephone
+61 2 9514 2000
Student inquiries
ask.uts.edu.au
Postal address
P.O. Box 123, Broadway, NSW 2007
See all
contacts
© Copyright UTS - CRICOS Provider No: 00099F - 21 June 2017 1:00 AM. The page is authorised by Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Vice-President (Corporate Services)