Friday Harbor Laboratories
Integrated Center for Marine Biomaterials and Ecomechanics
Home
About Adam
Consulting
CV
Lab Personnel
Funding Support
Contact Info
Welcome to the Comparative Vertebrate Biomechanics Lab at Friday Harbor Laboratories
In this lab we apply principles from engineering and physics to living systems to better understand mechanics, materials and structure as well as evolutionary processes. A good deal of work that goes on here is on cartilaginous fishes, though there is also a strong interest in amphibians and reptiles.
Principal Investigator
Adam Summers is a professor at the University of Washington’s Friday Harbor Laboratories appointed in the department of Biology and in the School of Aquatic and Fisheries Sciences.
His research is heavily collections based and he holds research associate positions at the Museum of Vertebrate Zoology at UC Berkeley and the Los Angeles County Museum. Current research topics include the evolution and mechanical properties of cartilage and tendon, swimming mechanics of sharks, respiratory patterns of sharks and rays and solid-solid interactions in aquatic organisms.
Lab News
A new material testing machine!
The newest testing device has arrived and has been installed. We bought the MUST Biotester by the German test equipment manufacturer Tetra. This tester can measure friction and adhesion in the microne
Ocean Acidifcation and Biomaterials
The National Science Foundation has awarded "Effects of ocean acidification on coastal organisms: an ecomaterials perspective" to Emily Carrington (PI) and Adam Summers (Co-PI). The work will support
NSF REU Site Grant!!
The National Science Foundation has awarded Friday Harbor Labs a three year grant to bring undergraduate researchers to the labs for the summer. The program will start in in the summer of 2010 and wil...
New Flume for FHL
The National Science Foundation's Field Station and Marine Labs program has awarded Friday Harbor Labs a grant to purchase a new large working section flume. This water tunnel will be capable of measu...
AES/ASIH Meeting - Providence , RI
Some members of the lab went to the American Society of Ichthyologists and Herpetologists meeting. The American Elasmobranch Society met with the Ichs and Herps and both Misty and Joe gave presentatio
 