Skip to main content
Text only Sign in
Search
School of Life Sciences
About Us
Study
Research
Impact
Outreach
People
Alumni
Dr Lloyd Chapman
Dr Lloyd Chapman
  Title   
Research Fellow
 
Contact   
Life Sciences
Senate House: Office 347
University of Warwick
Coventry
CV4 7AL
Tel: +44(0) 24 765 50255 (+44(0) 24 761 51785)
Email: L.Chapman.1@warwick.ac.uk
Research Interests
I am a mathematical modeller working as part of the Neglected Tropical Disease Modelling Consortium and the Warwick Infectious Disease Epidemiology Research group. My research is on visceral leishmaniasis - a parasitic vector-borne disease that kills an estimated 20,000-40,000 people worldwide annually. The Indian subcontinent (ISC) has 60% of the global burden of the disease, and the focus of my research is on determining whether current control strategies will be sufficient to eliminate the disease as a public health problem (<1 new case per 10,000 people per year) in the ISC by 2020 (the target set in the 2012 London Declaration on NTDs). The aim of the research is also to predict the most effective strategies (e.g. rapid treatment and vector control) for achieving the elimination target.
My background is in traditional applied mathematics (fluid dynamics, differential equations, asymptotics etc.) and mathematical biology, but I am very interested in applying statistical methods and probabilistic modelling to epidemiological data.

Biography
DPhil, Mathematical and Computational Biology, University of Oxford 2015
MMath, Mathematics, University of Oxford 2010
Member, Neglected Tropical Diseases Modelling Consortium
Member, Society of Industrial and Applied Mathematics
Publications
Journals
Cameron, M. M., Acosta-Serrano, Alvaro, Bern, Caryn, Boelaert, Marleen, den Boer, Margriet, Burza, Sakib, Chapman, Lloyd A. C., Chaskopoulou, Alexandra, Coleman, Michael, Courtenay, Orin, Croft, Simon, Das, Pradeep, Dilger, Erin, Foster, Geraldine, Garlapati, Rajesh, Haines, Lee, Harris, Angela, Hemingway, Janet, Hollingsworth, T. Déirdre, Jervis, Sarah, Medley, Graham, Miles, Michael, Paine, Mark, Picado, Albert, Poché, Richard, Ready, Paul, Rogers, Matthew, Rowland, Mark, Sundar, Shyam, de Vlas, Sake J., Weetman, David, 2016. Understanding the transmission dynamics of Leishmania donovani to provide robust evidence for interventions to eliminate visceral leishmaniasis in Bihar, India. Parasites & Vectors, 9 (1), pp. 1-9, View
Das, Vidya Nand Ravi, Pandey, Ravindra Nath, Siddiqui, Niyamat Ali, Chapman, Lloyd A. C., Kumar, Vijay, Pandey, Krishna, Matlashewski, Greg, Das, Pradeep, 2016. Longitudinal study of transmission in households with visceral leishmaniasis, asymptomatic infections and PKDL in highly endemic villages in Bihar, India. PLoS Neglected Tropical Diseases, 10 (12), View
Chapman, Lloyd A. C., Dyson, Louise, Courtenay, Orin, Chowdhury, Rajib, Bern, Caryn, Medley, Graham, Hollingsworth, T. Déirdre, 2015. Quantification of the natural history of visceral leishmaniasis and consequences for control. Parasites & Vectors, 8 (1), pp. 1-13, View

View All Publications

Update your user profile on Ideate https://warwick.tribalhosted.co.uk







  Contact us
School of Life Sciences, Gibbet Hill Campus, The University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL
Email: life.sciences@warwick.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0)24 765 74251
Warwick Crop Centre is located on our Wellesbourne campus.
Moodle
Staff and PG Intranet
Twitter
LinkedIn
Warwick Life Sciences on Instagram
Page contact: Jeanette Horton
Last revised: Sun 24 Apr 2016
Powered by Sitebuilder © MMXVII Terms Privacy Cookies Accessibility