University of Southern California
USC School of Pharmacy
Apply
Programs
Research
Faculty
Student Life
About Us
Giving
search
Home
Faculty
Roger Clemens
Roger Clemens, DrPH
Adjunct Professor, Pharmacology & Pharmaceutical Sciences
Co-Founder/EVP, PolyScience Consulting
Regulatory and Quality Sciences
Curriculum Vitae
RESEARCH TOPICS
Pediatric nutrition
Probiotics
Prebiotics
Functional foods
Analytical methodology applications
Food safety and toxicology
Food processing
CONTACT INFORMATION
Web Site
LinkedIn
E-mail
clemens@usc.edu
Office Phone
(323) 442-2124
Fax
(323) 442-1499
EDUCATION
Doctor of Public Health, UCLA, Nutrition/Biological Chemistry (1978)
Master of Public Health, UCLA, Nutrition (1973)
Bachelor of Arts, UCLA, Bacteriology (1972)
Roger Clemens
RESEARCH INTEREST
Pediatric nutrition, probiotics, prebiotics, functional foods, analytical methodology applications, food safety and toxicology, food processing
BIOGRAPHY
Dr. Roger A. Clemens is co-founder and executive vice president of scientific operations for PolyScience Consulting. He is part-time faculty within the USC Regulatory Science program where he enjoys an adjunct appointment as Professor of Pharmacology and Pharmaceutical Sciences within USC’s School of Pharmacy, International Center for Regulatory Science. He served as Scientific Advisor for Nestlé USA for more than 21 years and then Chief Scientific Officer for Horn for about a decade.

Dr. Clemens has published more than 50 original manuscripts in nutrition and food science, participated in more than 300 invited domestic and international lectures, and served as an expert panel member for the food industry, scientific organizations, trade associations and regulatory agencies in the United States, Canada and Europe.

Dr. Clemens was a member of the USDA 2010 Dietary Guidelines Advisory Committee, and is a third-term member of the US Pharmacopeia Food Ingredient Expert Committee.

Dr. Clemens is a past president of the Institute of Food Technologists (IFT) and former member of the IFT Board of Directors. As a spokesperson for IFT and the American Society for Nutrition (ASN), Dr. Clemens has been cited and interviewed by more than 500 domestic and international health journalists, and has appeared on numerous televised (e.g., Good Morning America, Good Morning London, CNN, CBS 48 Hours, TakePartLive, FoxNews) discussions on contemporary health, nutrition and food safety issues.
SELECTED PROJECTS/PUBLICATIONS
View a complete PubMed search
FACULTY
Faculty A-Z
Faculty by Department
Pharmacology and Pharmaceutical Sciences
Titus Family Department of Clinical Pharmacy
Department of Pharmaceutical and Health Economics
Department of Regulatory and Quality Sciences
Faculty by Areas of Focus
Clinical Pharmacy Faculty
Drug Delivery Faculty
Drug Design and Discovery Faculty
Health Economics & Policy Research Faculty
Molecular Targets Faculty
Regulatory Science Faculty
USC School of Pharmacy
University of Southern California
1985 Zonal Avenue
Los Angeles, CA 90089-9121
(323) 442-1369
map
links for students and faculty
Alumni and Friends
Visit Us
USC Pharmacies
Contact Us
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Instagram
Website by USC Web Services