Vanderbilt University Medical Center
MENU
×
Anesthesiology Physicians & Scientis...
Department Leadership
Office of the Chair
Division of Ambulatory Anesthesiology
Division of Anesthesiology Critical Care Medicine
Division of Cardiothoracic Anesthesiology
Division of Multispecialty Adult Anesthesiology
Division of Neuroanesthesiology
Division of Obstetric Anesthesiology
Division of Pain Medicine
People Finder
Event Calendar
Referring Providers
Locations and Parking
A-Z Index
Patient and Visitor Information
My Health at Vanderbilt
Vanderbilt University Medical Center
Monroe Carell Jr. Children's Hospital at Vanderbilt
Vanderbilt University
Research
For Patients and Visitors
Resources for Employees and Researchers
Patients and Visitors go to VanderbiltHealth.com
Anesthesiology Physicians & Scientist Faculty
Benjamin Johnson, MD
Associate Professor
Division of Obstetric Anesthesiology
ben.johnson@vanderbilt.edu
Phone: 615-322-8476
Assistant: Le'Rae Stanton
Assistant Email: chilyere.l.stanton@vanderbilt.edu
Assistant Phone: 615-322-8476
Fax: 615-343-1732

Education & Training
MBA, Owen Graduate School of Management, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN (1996)
Fellowship, Thoracic Anesthesiology, University of California, San Diego, CA (1985)
Fellowship, Regional Anesthesiology/Pain Management, Naval Hospital, San Diego, CA (1985)
Residency, Anesthesiology, Naval Hospital, San Diego, CA (1984)
Residency, General Surgery, Metropolitan Group Hospitals, Mercy Hospital & Medical Center, Chicago, IL (1982)
Internship, General Surgery, University of Illinois Hospital, Chicago, IL (1981)
MD, University of Illinois, College of Medicine, Chicago, IL (1980)
BS, Wheaton Collge, Wheaton, IL (1973)
Click here to generate a curriculum vitae for Benjamin Johnson, MD.

Adobe Reader is required to generate and view CV.
Click on link below for free download of Adobe Reader.

Facebook Twitter Youtube Google+
Find a Doctor
Parking and Transportation
Patient and Visitor Info
School of Medicine
School of Nursing
Vanderbilt University
Eskind Biomedical Library
Feedback
Office of Research
Giving
Volunteer
Patient Privacy
Media
Web Policy
Careers
About VUMC
Popular Links
Vanderbilt Health
My Health at Vanderbilt
Medical Record Information
Request an Appointment
Patient & Visitor Info
Referring Physicians
Through the exceptional capabilities and caring spirit of its people, Vanderbilt will lead in improving the healthcare of individuals and communities regionally, nationally and internationally. We will combine our transformative learning programs and compelling discoveries to provide distinctive personalized care.
Vanderbilt University Medical Center
1211 Medical Center Drive, Nashville, TN 37232
(615) 322-5000
Vanderbilt University Medical Center is committed to principles of equal opportunity and affirmative action.
Copyright © 2017 by Vanderbilt University Medical Center
Vanderbilt®, Vanderbilt University Medical Center®, V Oak Leaf Design®, Monroe Carell Jr. Children’s Hospital at Vanderbilt® and Vanderbilt Health® are trademarks of The Vanderbilt University.