VIVO
Weill Cornell Medical College
Index
Log in
Home
People
Organizations
Research
Support
Babak Benjamin Navi   Assistant Professor of Neurology
Publications
Research
Background
Contact
Other
Phone
(212) 746-0225
Associate Professor of Neurology, Neurology , Weill Cornell Medical College 2017 -
Assistant Professor of Neuroscience, Brain and Mind Research Institute , Weill Cornell Medical College 2012 - 2017
Assistant Professor of Neurology, Neurology , Weill Cornell Medical College 2011 - 2017
Senior Clinical Associate in Neurology, Neurology , Weill Cornell Medical College 2008 - 2009
Clinical Associate in Neurology, Neurology , Weill Cornell Medical College 2006 - 2008
Babak Navi, MD, MS, is a native New Yorker who received his medical degree from New York University, where he graduated with honors (Alpha Omega Alpha Society). He completed a residency in neurology at the Weill Cornell Medical Center and served as the Chief Resident in his final year. He then completed a two-year fellowship in vascular neurology at the University of California, San Francisco, where he also became certified in comprehensive neurosonology. In 2011, Dr. Navi returned to New York to become an Assistant Professor of Neurology. He has been the Medical Director of the Cornell Stroke Center since August 2011.
Dr. Navi is an expert on the relationship between stroke and cancer. He has published numerous studies on this topic, and is the co-principal investigator of the first randomized trial to compare different blood thinners for patients with cancer and stroke. Dr. Navi also has conducted research studies on cryptogenic stroke, postpartum stroke, cerebrovascular presentations of dizziness, and the prognostic abilities of neurologists. His work has been published in high impact peer-reviewed journals, including the New England Journal of Medicine, JAMA, Annals of Neurology, Neurology, Archives of Neurology, Critical Care Medicine, Stroke, and Annals of Emergency Medicine. In addition, he was awarded an NIH KL2 grant in 2012 from the Cornell CTSC and an NIH K23 grant in 2015. Dr. Navi is an Associate Editor for the journal Neurohospitalist, and is the Cornell site principal investigator for the NIH-funded POINT trial. He also holds the Florence Gould Endowment for Discovery in Stroke and is the Associate Director of the Clinical and Translational Neuroscience Unit (CTNU) within the Cornell Brain and Mind Research Institute. 
PUBLICATIONS
Sort by
Newest
Oldest
Times Cited
Publication Type
Journal Name
Co-Author Network
Selected publications
Cryptogenic Stroke and Nonstenosing Intracranial Calcified Atherosclerosis.  Journal of stroke and cerebrovascular diseases : the official journal of National Stroke Association. 2017 In Process GET IT
Imaging characteristics associated with clinical outcomes in posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome.  Neuroradiology. 2017 In Process GET IT
Risk of Pulmonary Embolism After Cerebral Venous Thrombosis.  Stroke.  2017 Academic Article GET IT
Discharge Disposition After Stroke in Patients With Liver Disease.  Stroke.  2017 Academic Article GET IT
Timing of Carotid Revascularization Procedures After Ischemic Stroke.  Stroke.  2017 Academic Article GET IT
Intracerebral Hemorrhage Outcomes in Patients with Systemic Cancer.  Journal of stroke and cerebrovascular diseases : the official journal of National Stroke Association.  2016 Academic Article GET IT
more ...
RESEARCH
Sort by
Newest
Oldest
Researcher Role
Co-investigator Network
Grants awarded
Cancer And Risk Of Ischemic Stroke  awarded by National Institute of Neurological Disorders & Stroke Principal Investigator 2015 - 2020
MISTIE III: A Phase III, Randomized, Open-Label, 500-Subject Clinical Trial of Minimally Invasive Surgery Plus rt-PA  awarded by National Institute of Neurological Disorders & Stroke Key Personnel 2013 -
POINT- Platelet-Oriented Inhibition in New TIA and Minor Ischemic Stroke Trial  awarded by National Institute of Neurological Disorders & Stroke Principal Investigator Subaward 2013 -
Clinical and Translational Science Center (KL2) - Career Award  awarded by National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences Key Personnel 2012 - 2017
BACKGROUND
Education and Training
M.S., Weill Graduate School of Medical Sciences of Cornell University 2015
M.D., New York University School of Medicine 2001 - 2005
B.A., Emory University 2001
CONTACT
Primary Email
ban9003@med.cornell.edu
webpage
Clinical Profile
OTHER
Primary Affiliation
Weill Cornell Medical College, Cornell University
Awards and honors
New York Super Doctors Rising Star, 2015
Florence Gould Endowment for Discovery in Stroke, 2014
Cornell Neurology Residents' Faculty Teaching Award, 2013
Weill Cornell CTSC Research Scholar Honors Program, 2013
©2017 VIVO Project | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO