OPHTHALMOLOGY

Tulane.edu people Phone Book
Home
Programs
People
» Faculty
» Residents
» Fellows
» Staff
Patient Information
Contact Us
  The People of Ophthalmology
Faculty
Meet Dr. Caldwell
Delmar R. Caldwell, MD
Department Chairman
Cornea, Refractive Surgery
Dr. Caldwell is professor and chairman of the Department of Ophthalmology, a position he has had held since February 1, 1978. His professional associations have included: associate member of the American Ophthalmological Society, fellow of the American Academy of Ophthalmology, Public and Professional Education Committee, Public Education Resource Group, International Eye Surgeons Associates, ARVO, International Medical Advisory Board of Project ORBIS, Ocular Microbiology and Immunology Society, AMA, American Intraocular Implant Society (now American Society of Cataract & Refractive Surgery) and Honorary Medical Director of the Southern Eye Bank in New Orleans.
Dr. Caldwell has edited seven Transactions during the time he served as chairman of the Transactions Committee for the New Orleans Academy of Ophthalmology. He also has served as consultant to the Editorial Board of the Journal of the Louisiana State Medical Society and has served as editor of Mediguide to Ophthalmology. Much of his work has been published in various medical journals, and he has served as a reviewer for many articles and several books submitted for publication.
His work with cornea and anterior segment diseases is well known and respected by his peers. The development of the Caldwell Keratoprosthesis is in its final stages. This artificial cornea has been tested in France, Japan, Africa, Panama, South Korea and Uruguay.
Dr. Caldwell has also had the distinct privilege of presenting around the globe. His travels include presentations given in Montreal, Acapulco, Mexico City, Brazil, Uruguay, Peru, Venezuela, Columbia, Panama, Guatemala, San Salvador, Belize, Istanbul, Tokyo, South Korea, Karachi, Sri Lanka, Dubai, Abu Dabi, Taif, Riad, Maui, Paris, Toulouse, Rome, Berlin, London, and Dublin.
Curriculum Vitae
  Tulane Home
Copyright
Feedback
Privacy
1430 Tulane Ave, New Orleans, LA 70112 medsch@tulane.edu