Skip to content
Graduate Studies
Overview
Graduate Guide
FAQ
Apply
Grad Courses
Grad Awards
Undergraduate Studies
Overview
Why Study Sociology?
How to Declare
Courses
Internships
Undergrad Awards
Home
Faculty & Staff
Graduate Students
Alumni
Resources
News & Events
Give
Michael Lacy
Contact Information
Phone: (970) 491-6721
Email: michael.lacy@colostate.edu
Office: B248 Clark
Role: Faculty
Concentration:
Quantitative Methods
Natural Resource and Environment
Evaluation Research
Department: Sociology
Biography
Michael Lacy is Director of Graduate Studies and Associate Professor in the sociology department, and has been at CSU since 1990. He received his Ph.D. in sociology from the University of Kansas, and has additional post-doctoral training in computer science and epidemiology. Lacy previously worked at the University of Nebraska Omaha campus and medical center. His recent work has focused on quantitative methods, including the development of new techniques, but he also has collaborated widely with others as a quantitative specialist in diverse topical areas. As a methodologist, he has particular interests in ordered categorical data, and in case-control methods for studying rare events and statuses. Besides the methodological side of his work, Lacy has a longstanding interest in natural resource and environment topics, ranging from his doctoral research on the history of energy consumption in the U. S., up through his more recent work on environmental values in rural India. His published work has appeared in Sociological Methods and Research, American Anthropologist, the Journal of Agricultural and Resource Economics, Social Science Quarterly, and the American Journal of Physical Anthropology. Lacy currently participates on the education and diversity team of CSU s Center for Multiscale Modeling of Atmospheric Processes.
Education
Ph.D. University of Kansas
Curriculum Vitae
Download Curriculum Vitae
Pete Taylor, Chair
Betty Burkett, Program Assistant
Sara Gill, Coordinator
CLA-Soc_Dept_Info@colostate.edu
B258 Clark Building
Fort Collins, CO 80523-1784
Phone: (970) 491-6044
Fax: (970) 491-2191
Liberal Arts Student Accessibility Faculty Accessibility FSAS Help FSAS Login Contact Webmaster Admissions Disclaimer Equal Opportunity Employment Privacy Statement Login