Current Students
Faculty
Staff
Alumni
Directory
Calendar
News
Library
Computing
Visit
Search form
Search
Admissions
Juris Doctor
International LLM & SJD
Law & Entrepreneurship
Judicial Studies
Academics
Academic Calendar
Curriculum
Registrar
Summer Institutes
Clinics
Faculty & Scholarship
Faculty Directory
Recent Scholarship
VAP
Centers
Journals
Student Life
Student Affairs
Public Interest
Career Center
Student Organizations
LEAD
About
Administration
Facilities
ABA Required Disclosures
Giving
Durham
More links
Michael D. Frakes
Professor of Law
Email: michael.frakes@law.duke.edu
Room: 3188
Phone: 919-613-7185
210 Science Drive
Box 90360
Durham, NC 27708-0360
Assistant:  Bonnie Millis
Bibliography
Curriculum Vitae (PDF)

Michael Frakes joined the Duke Law faculty in June, 2016 from Northwestern University’s Pritzker School of Law, where he was an associate professor. He is generally interested in empirical research in the areas of health law and innovation policy. His research in health is largely focused on understanding how certain legal and financial incentives affect the decisions of physicians and other health care providers. His research in innovation policy centers on the relationship between the financing of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and key aspects of its decision making.  Michael also serves as a faculty research fellow at the National Bureau of Economic Research. 
While at Northwestern, Frakes also served as a faculty fellow at the Institute for Policy Research. He was previously an assistant professor of Law at Cornell Law School from 2011-2014.
Frakes’ scholarship has appeared in, or is forthcoming in, various economics and law & economics journals including the American Economic Review, the Review of Economics and Statistics, the Journal of Public Economics, the Journal of Health Economics, the Journal of Empirical Legal Studies, and the American Law and Economics Review, along with various law reviews including the Stanford Law Review, the University of Chicago Law Review, the Duke Law Journal, and the Vanderbilt Law Review.  He is currently serving as the Principal Investigation on an R01 award from the NIH, exploring the effects of immunizing physicians from medical liability on the extent and quality of the medical care they deliver.
Frakes received his BS in economics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 2001, his JD, cum laude, from Harvard Law School in 2005, and a PhD in economics from MIT in 2009. He was an associate at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom in Wilmington, Del., from 2005 to 2007. From 2009 to 2011, he was an academic fellow at the Petrie-Flom Center for Health Law Policy, Biotechnology, and Bioethics at Harvard Law School.
Faculty Profiles
Scholarship & Activities
Visiting Assistant Professor Program
Centers
Journals
RECENT COURSES
347: Health Care Law and Policy
Duke Law
210 Science Drive
Box 90362
Durham, NC 27708
(919) 613-7006
Offices
Office of the Dean
Academic Affairs
Academic Technologies
Administrative Services
Admissions and Financial Aid
Alumni and Development
Career Center
Communications
Events
Goodson Law Library
International Studies
Media Inquiries
Public Interest & Pro Bono
Registrar
Student Affairs
Social Media
Twitter
Youtube
Facebook
Instagram
Prof. Benjamin analyzes Supreme Court opinion on sex offenders and social networking https://t.co/epzwz3X4ot
Follow @DukeLaw
Duke University
Contact
Accessibility
Legal Referrals
Website Feedback
Make a Gift