Jump to main navigation
Jump to content


MENU
MARK A. SUPIANO, MD
Clinical Information
Academic Information
Videos & News
4.6 OUT OF 5 PATIENT RATINGS
Languages Spoken: English
Mark A. Supiano, MD, is a geriatrician in the University Hospital Geriatrics Clinic. As a geriatrician, his clinical interests include providing comprehensive geriatric assessment consultations with a particular interest in high blood pressure (hypertension) and disorders of blood pressure regulation (orthostatic or postural hypotension). He has been regularly cited by the Best Doctors in America in Geriatric Medicine.
Dr. Supiano received his MD from the University of Wisconsin and training in Internal Medicine and Geriatric Medicine from the University of Michigan. He was a University of Michigan faculty member prior to joining the Utah School of Medicine faculty in 2005.
Throughout his career, Dr. Supiano has responded to the demographic imperative of our aging population in his clinical practice of Geriatric Medicine, in conducting patient-oriented clinical research, and in a commitment to medical education and research training. His research has been recognized with awards from the American Geriatrics Society and the Gerontological Society of America and he is a Fellow in each of these societies. He is currently a Board Member of the American Geriatrics Society and the Association of Directors of Academic Geriatric Programs.
CLINICAL LOCATIONS
UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL
Geriatrics, Clinic 1
801-581-2628
50 N Medical Dr
Salt Lake City, UT  84132
Map
SPECIALTIES
GERIATRICS
BOARD CERTIFICATION AND ACADEMIC INFORMATION
Academic Departments Internal Medicine - Professor
Physical Therapy and Athletic Training - Adjunct Professor
Academic Divisions Geriatrics
Board Certification American Board of Internal Medicine (Internal Medicine)
American Board of Internal Medicine (Sub: Geriatric Medicine)
PATIENT RATINGS
The Patient Rating score is an average of all responses to care provider related questions on our nationally-recognized Press Ganey Patient Satisfaction Survery.
Responses are measured on a scale of 1 to 5 with 5 being the best score.
LEARN ABOUT OUR SURVEY
Likelihood of recommending care provider
4.7/ 5
Care provider spoke using clear language
4.4/ 5
Care provider's explanation of condition/problem
4.6/ 5
My confidence in care provider
4.8/ 5
Care provider's effort to include me in decisions
4.5/ 5
Wait time at clinic
4.2/ 5
Time care provider spent with me
4.6/ 5
Care provider's concern for questions & worries
4.6/ 5
Care provider's friendliness and courtesy
4.6/ 5
PATIENT COMMENTS
Patient comments are gathered from our Press Ganey Patient Satisfaction Survery and displayed in their entirety. Patients are de-identified for confidentiality and patient privacy.

February 01, 2017
Impressed with Dr. Supriano. Would have given more 'Very Good' marks, but I'm naturally reticent.

September 29, 2016
still waiting for blood tests results and prescription info

March 01, 2016
Dr. Supiano was very personable. He explained things very well and made helpful suggestions. The university needs to be congratulated for employing such a superb doctor. He treated me with great respect and thoughtfulness. I have been very pleased with the care I have gotten from him and his entire staff. If it were in the performing arts, it would merit a standing ovation.

January 12, 2016
I was extremely pleased with the thorough way he explained things to me. He took the time necessary, and I came away understanding things much better.

July 04, 2015
Dr. was wonderful!

April 06, 2015
I like observing Dr. Supiano's interactions with my mom. I also appreciate his willingness to work with Dr. Freimer and my mother's primary care physician, Dr. Cacciamani.

November 30, 2014
I liked the both very well.

June 06, 2014
My mother found the doctors attitude very arrogant and is desirous to find another provider for her follow-up. The doctor only works on Tuesday afternoons, making availability very limited

April 11, 2014
Excellent.

October 09, 2012
Dr. Supiano gives excellent care!

August 25, 2012
Mom, appt lasted almost 3 hours. I was amazed at the thoroughness of the admission visit. MDs were especially good at explaining things.





















SITE LINKS
About Us
Academics & Research
Jobs
Giving
Maps & Directions
Public Affairs
The Imagine Perfect Care Program
HELPFUL LINKS
Find an Interpreter
Patient Rights & Responsibilities
Disclaimer
Privacy Statement
DNV GL Public Information Policy Statement
Non-Discrimination Policy
Webmaster
CONTACT US
UNIVERSITY OF UTAH HEALTH
50 North Medical Drive
Salt Lake City, UT 84132
801-581-2121
A short title of the SVG
All clinical services and programs are part of University of Utah Health.
Copyright © 2017 University of Utah Health