Accessibility links
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
Skip to footer
Search
LEARN
RESEARCH
CONNECT
EXPLORE
Login
Toggle search
Dr Marcus Bussey
Breadcrumbs
... Structure Faculty of Arts, Business and Law Staff
Welcome from the Executive Dean
About the Faculty
School of Business
School of Communication and Creative Industries
School of Social Sciences
USC Law School
Engagement
Faculty research areas
Staff
Contact the Faculty of Arts, Business and Law
Senior Lecturer, History and Futures
PhD Sunshine Coast, BEd S.Qld., DipEd Melb., BA(Hons) W.Aust.
EMAIL
mbussey@usc.edu.au
TELEPHONE
+61 7 5459 4889
OFFICE LOCATION
T2.24
USC Research Bank: Dr Marcus Bussey's publications
Teaching areas
World History
Sustainable Futures
Futures Studies
Research areas
heritage futures
culture and history
anticipatory action learning
causal layered analysis
macrohistory and social change
futures studies including educational futures, youth futures, sustainable futures, business futures, futures of the Arts
social theory
post-structuralism (focus on Gilles Deleuze, Jacques Derrida, Michel Foucault and Judith Butler)
post-colonialism (focus on Ashis Nandy, Ananta Kumar Giri, Ranajit Guha, Ziauddin Sardar and Vinay Lal)
sustainability and adaptive capacity
Stay in touch with Marcus and visit his other sites:
Marcus Bussey on Twitter *
LinkedIn profile
Rhizomicfutures (blog) *
* This is an external website and the University of the Sunshine Coast is not responsible for the content.
Profile
Dr Marcus Bussey is an educator and futurist with more than 30 years experience. He has taught widely throughout Australia having spent 5 years at a yoga based neohumanist school, 4 years in an urban community school run by a parent cooperative, 7 years in Montessori primary and high schools, and 10 years at USC where he currently teaches world history and futures studies and coordinates the graduate program in Futures Studies. Marcus has recently been awarded a Taiwan Fellowship for 2014. This fellowship will allow him to work with colleagues at Tamkang University and the National Taiwan University on developing futures thinking in undergraduate engineering students. This is a yearlong project that will explore the role of engineering in Taiwan's future.
Marcus has presented papers on education, social change and community engagement in Taiwan, Croatia, Israel, India, Sweden, Philippines, Malaysia, Singapore, Finland, Denmark, France and the US. In 2003, he completed a pilot study for the Queensland Department of Families as part of their project 'Queensland 2020: a State for All Ages'. This included a stimulus paper and 20-minute video, both entitled 'Youth Voices: Young Queenslander’s Values in a Time of Structural Ageing'. In 2010 Marcus led the report 'Societal Responses to Significant Change for the South East Queensland Climate Adaptation Research Initiative’ (SEQCARI), a research collaboration between CSIRO, Griffith University, University of Queensland and USC.
Marcus is Discipline Head for the History component of the Bachelor of Arts and teaches courses in World History, Australian popular culture and Historiography in the Faculty of Arts, Business and Law at USC. He is also a researcher involved with USC's Sustainability Research Centre (SRC). Core interests are social learning and adaptive capacity in which all theory is grounded in practice and hope is built into all research premises and processes. He is interested in the intersection of cultures and their languages and loves to run anticipatory workshops that build personal agency and capacity along with inclusivity and a tolerance for complexity, chaos and open ended processes (rather than answers). He is committed to also developing via such approaches the theoretical confidence to advocate for these in professional and community contexts.
Marcus Bussey has forged collaborative partnerships with colleagues focused on social sustainability, educational and institutional innovation. He works regularly with the following institutions:
Nanyang Technological University, Singapore
University West, Trollhättan, Sweden
Gothenburg University, Sweden
Madras Institute of Development Studies, Chennai, India
Tamkang University, Tamsui, Taiwan
De La Salle University, Manila, Philippines
In 2013, Marcus became a member of the Union of International Associations (UIA), a research institute and documentation centre based in Brussels. It was founded in 1907, by Henri La Fontaine (Nobel Peace Prize laureate of 1913), and Paul Otlet, a founding father of what is now called information science. The UIA has been a pioneer in the research, monitoring and provision of information on international organizations, international associations and their global challenges since 1907. Membership is by invitation only.
Marcus is also an accomplished musician with 4 CDs to his credit and he uses the Suzuki method to teach classical guitar. He has authored over 70 articles, book chapters and an encyclopedia entry. He has co-edited both 'Neohumanist Educational Futures: Liberating the Pedagogical Intellect' (Tamkang University Press: 2006) and 'Alternative Educational Futures: Pedagogies for Emergent Worlds' (Sense Publishers, 2008) with Sohail Inayatullah and Ivana Milojevic, and co-authored 'Futures Thinking for Social Foresight' with Richard Slaughter (2005). Furthermore, he co-edited with Jennifer Fitzgerald the book 'Fire in Our Eyes, Flowers in Our Hearts: Tantric Women Tell Their Stories' (Gurukula Press, 2007). Marcus recently published his first book of poetry entitled 'Clare and Francis: Conversations of Divine Love' (Blue Dolphin Publishing, 2012).
Marcus is a member of the Vice Chancellor's Art Advisory Committee at the University of the Sunshine Coast. He is also a member of both the Arts Research in Creative Humanities research cluster and the Sustainability Research Centre at USC.
Professional memberships
Teach the Future
Queensland Suzuki Music Teachers Association
Australasian Democratic Education Community
World Futures Study Federation
Foresight Education and Research Network (FERN)
International Advisory Board, Regional Centre of Expertise, West Swede
Honorary Member, Humanimal Earth Lartigau Project
Member, Union of International Associations
Board Member, Ananda Marga Gurukula
Advisory Board Member, Swami Vivekananda University of Social Work and Social Transformation
Member, Editorial Board, 'The Journal of Futures Studies'
Member, Editorial Board, 'On the Horizons'
Member, Editorial Board, 'Social Alternatives'
Member, School Board,  Montessori International College, Buderim, Queensland, Australia
Member, School Board, Blackall Range Independent School, Kureelpa, Queensland, Australia
Awards and Fellowships
Advance Award: Advancing Quality Teaching, 2014, University of the Sunshine Coast
Taiwan Fellow 2014: Engineering for the Futures of Taiwan
Visiting Fellow (2012–2013) at Nanyang Technological University’s S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies (RSIS) in the Centre for Excellence in National Security, Singapore
Research Fellow in Regional Futures (2009–2011)  at the University of the Sunshine Coast’s Sustainability Research Centre
Emerald Literati Network Award for Excellence (2010) for his paper : ‘Six Shamanic Concepts: Charting the between in futures work in the journal foresight (2009) 11(2), pp: 29–42
Potential research projects for HDR and Honours Students
Futures Studies
Educational Futures
Transformative Pedagogies
Strategic Foresight
Social Learning and Cultural Addiction
Sustainable Futures
Hope and Embodied Social Action
Creativity and Culture
Poststructural Encounters
Practical Spirituality
Causal Layered Analysis
Proutist Futures
Neohumanist Futures
World History
Macrohistory and Macrohistorians
Social Cycles
World Historical Processes
Civilisation and Paradigm Shift
Historiography
Hegemony and Social Change
Prabhat Rainjan Sarkar
Art/Music History
Research grants
  Project name        Investigators Funding body    Year Focus
  Engineering for the Futures of Taiwan
Dr Marcus Bussey  Taiwanese Fellowship (A$9,337.43)  2014  Introduces futures thinking to first year engineering students in order to foster an identity around engineering that is less utilitarian and more conscious of the role an engineer plays in society and the manifestation and shaping of its values.
Earth, Wood and Fire: A Dragon Kiln Story – From Industry to Community Arts
Dr Marcus Bussey Singapore Heritage Participation Grant (National Heritage Board) (A$37,652.42) 2014 Tracks in word and image the transition of Singapore from a manufacturing centre to a post industrial city though the story of the Thow Kwang dragon kiln and the artistic community that has evolved around it.
Postdoctoral researcher in South East Queensland Climate Adaptation Research Initiative
Dr Marcus Bussey SEQCAR 2009–2011  
  Maps and directions
Campus security and emergencies
A-Z Directory
Online payments
Website feedback
askUSC
Contact us
Accessibility  Copyright Disclaimer Privacy Right to information
Last updated: 7 June 2017
ABN 28 441 859 157
CRICOS Provider No. 01595D
The University of the Sunshine Coast acknowledges the Traditional Custodians of the land on which its campuses sit. We recognise and pay respect to Elders past, present and emerging.