A-Z Index Accessibility
Undergraduate
Postgraduate
International
Research
Business
Alumni
About Us
Visitors
Music
You are in: Home ⇨ Music ⇨ Staff ⇨ Profile
Profile
Dr Kelly Jakubowski
AHRC IEMP Postdoctoral Research Assistant in the Department of Music
Contact Dr Kelly Jakubowski (email at kelly.jakubowski@durham.ac.uk)
Biography
Dr Kelly Jakubowski is a Post-Doctoral Research Assistant on an AHRC-funded research grant on “Interpersonal Entrainment in Music Performance”. This project aims to quantify, describe, and compare interpersonal interactions within musical performances across a wide variety of cultures and musical styles.
Kelly studied Music Performance (violin) and Music Theory for her undergraduate (Baldwin Wallace University, USA) and Masters degrees (Ohio State University, USA). She then pursued an MSc and PhD in music psychology at Goldsmiths, University of London. Her PhD research (completed in 2015) was funded by the Leverhulme Trust and focused on developing new behavioural and computational methods for studying musical imagery and involuntary memory for music (including the phenomenon of having an “earworm”, or tune stuck in one’s head). She has also conducted and published research on absolute pitch, memory for musical pitch and tempo, and emotional responses to music. In 2015, she was awarded the Hickman Early Career Research Award for her PhD research on temporal aspects of involuntary musical imagery, which included a plenary session talk at the European Society for the Cognitive Sciences of Music conference in Manchester, UK.
Before joining Durham University, Kelly has worked as a Teaching Fellow in Psychology at Goldsmiths, University of London and a Visiting Lecturer in Music at King’s College London.
Selected Publications
Chapter in book
Frieler, K, Jakubowski, K. & Mullensiefen, D (2015). Is it the song and not the singer? Hit song prediction using structural features of melodies. In Yearbook of Music Psychology (Jahrbuch Musikpsychologie). Auhagen, W, Bullerjahn, C & von Georgi, R Hogrefe.
Williamson, V.J. & Jakubowski, K. (2014). Earworms. In Music in the Social and Behavioural Sciences. Thompson, W.F. Sage.
Journal Article
Jakubowski, K., Mullensiefen, D. & Stewart, L. (2016). A development study of latent absolute pitch memory. The Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology 434-443.
Jakubowski, K., Finkel, S., Stewart, L. & Müllensiefen, D. (2016). Dissecting an earworm: Melodic features and song popularity predict involuntary musical imagery. Psychology of Aesthetics, Creativity, and the Arts
Jakubowski, K., Farrugia, N. & Stewart, L. (2016). Probing imagined tempo for music: Effects of motor engagement and musical experience. Psychology of Music 44(6): 1274-1288.
Liikkanen, L.A., Jakubowski, K. & Toivanen, J (2015). Catching earworms on Twitter: Using big data to study involuntary imagery. Music Perception 33(2): 199-216.
Jakubowski, K., Halpern, A.R., Grierson, M. & Stewart, L. (2015). The effect on exercise-induced arousal on preferred tempo for familiar melodies. Psychonomic Bulletin & Review 22(2): 559-565.
Jakubowski, Kelly, Farrugia, N., Halpern, A.R., Sankarpandi, S.K. & Stewart, L. (2015). The speed of our mental soundtracks: Tracking the tempo of involuntary musical imagery in everyday life. Memory & Cognition 43(8): 1229-1242.
Farrugia, N., Jakubowski, Kelly, Cusack, R. & Stewart, L. (2015). Tunes stuck in your brain: The frequency and affective evaluation of involuntary musical imagery correlate with cortical structure. Consciousness & Cognition 35: 66-77.
Williamson, V.J., Liikkanen, L.A., Jakubowski, Kelly & Stewart, L. (2014). Sticky tunes: How do people react to involuntary musical imagery?. PLOS ONE 9(1): e86170.
Frieler, K., Fischinger, T., Schlemmer, K., Lothwesen, K., Jakubowski, K. & Mullensiefen, D. (2013). Absolute memory for pitch: A comparative replication of Levitin's 1994 study in six European labs. Musicae Scientiae 17(3): 334-349.
Jakubowski, K. & Mullensiefen, D. (2013). The influence of music-elicited emotions and relative pitch on absolute pitch memory for familiar melodies. The Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology 66(7): 1259-1267.
Show all publications
Music
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Information for students
Welcome and Induction 2016
Research
Staff
About the Department
Career options and employability
Contact us
The University
Home
About
Jobs
Contact Us
Visit us
What's On
News
Colleges
Academic Departments
Professional Support Services
Study with Us
Undergraduate
Postgraduate
International
Course Finder
Student Life
Business Services
Business Gateway
Contacts
Business Engagement
Consultancy
Research Commercialisation
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships
Analytical Services
Employing Durham Graduates
Our Research
Research Institutes
Research Centres
Centres for Doctoral Training
News and Events
Research Directory
Alumni
Benefits
Events
Login/Register
Volunteer
For Students
Student Gateway
Dialogue Signposts (student)
DUO
Student appeals, complaints and discipline
For Staff
Staff Gateway
Dialogue Signposts (staff)
Staff Directory
Updated: 17th October 2016
Comments & Questions
Charitable Status
Disclaimer
Trading Name
Cookie Policy