Vanderbilt University Medical Center
×
Department of Neurological Surgery
Home
About Us
Faculty
Research
Residency Education
Patient Care
News & Innovations
People Finder
Event Calendar
Referring Providers
Locations and Parking
A-Z Index
Patient and Visitor Information
My Health at Vanderbilt
Vanderbilt University Medical Center
Monroe Carell Jr. Children's Hospital at Vanderbilt
Vanderbilt University
Research
For Patients and Visitors
Resources for Employees and Researchers
Patients and Visitors go to VanderbiltHealth.com
Department of Neurological Surgery



Christopher M. Bonfield, MD
Assistant Professor, Neurological Surgery
Vanderbilt University Medical Center
Dr. Bonfield is Assistant Professor of Neurological Surgery. His clinical interests include general pediatric neurosurgery, with an emphasis on craniofacial surgery and spinal deformity/scoliosis correction. In addition, Dr. Bonfields adult spine practice includes complex spine reconstruction and deformity correction. He has also performed neurosurgery in Africa and South America, and is active in global neurosurgery efforts.
Education:
Dr. Bonfield completed his Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He received his medical degree from the University of Pittsburgh School Of Medicine in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Postgraduate Training:
Dr. Bonfield completed his residency in Neurosurgery, a fellowship in complex Spine Surgery, and subspecialty training in Pediatric Craniofacial Surgery at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center. He also completed a Pediatric Neurosurgery fellowship with Pediatric Spine subspecialty training at the University of British Columbia/BC Childrens Hospital in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
Current Research Interests:
Craniofacial surgery outcomes
Minimally-invasive craniosynostosis correction
Spinal deformity/scoliosis correction
Chiari malformation and scoliosis
Sports-related head and spine injuries
International neurosurgery

Click here to view Dr. Bonfield's full Curriculum Vitae.
Contact:
Academic Office Mailing Address:
Vanderbilt University Medical Center
Department of Neurological Surgery
2220 Childrens Way
9226 Doctors Office Tower
Nashville, TN 37232-9557
Phone: (615) 936-6104
Fax: (615) 343-7076

Clinic/Patient Appointments:
2220 Childrens Way
9226 Doctors Office Tower
Nashville, TN 37232-9557
Phone: (615) 322-6875
Home
About Us
Faculty
Research
Residency
Education
Patient
Care
News &
Innovations
Facebook Twitter Youtube Google+
Find a Doctor
Parking and Transportation
Patient and Visitor Info
School of Medicine
School of Nursing
Vanderbilt University
Eskind Biomedical Library
Feedback
Office of Research
Giving
Volunteer
Patient Privacy
Media
Web Policy
Careers
About VUMC
Popular Links
Vanderbilt Health
My Health at Vanderbilt
Medical Record Information
Request an Appointment
Patient & Visitor Info
Referring Physicians
Through the exceptional capabilities and caring spirit of its people, Vanderbilt will lead in improving the healthcare of individuals and communities regionally, nationally and internationally. We will combine our transformative learning programs and compelling discoveries to provide distinctive personalized care.
Vanderbilt University Medical Center
1211 Medical Center Drive, Nashville, TN 37232
(615) 322-5000
Vanderbilt University Medical Center is committed to principles of equal opportunity and affirmative action.
Copyright © 2017 by Vanderbilt University Medical Center
Vanderbilt®, Vanderbilt University Medical Center®, V Oak Leaf Design®, Monroe Carell Jr. Children’s Hospital at Vanderbilt® and Vanderbilt Health® are trademarks of The Vanderbilt University.