About
People
Academics
Research
Events & Outreach
Alumni & Friends
  Current Weather  
  Giving
Thank you and welcome!
Gregory J. Hakim, Chair
Atmospheric Sciences Department
Thank you for visiting the Atmospheric Sciences Department web site for online giving. We appreciate your taking the time to learn more about the department and how private support can make a significant difference in the success of the Atmospheric Sciences' students and faculty.

The Department of Atmospheric Sciences seeks to educate undergraduate and graduate students. Our undergraduate program provides strong preparation in the basic physical sciences and mathematics and prepares students for careers in many fields, including the curriculum required by the National Weather Service. Our graduate students go on to distinguished careers in research laboratories, private enterprise and at universities.

We are proud of the continued excellence of the teaching and research of our faculty, and of the many accomplishments of our students and alumni. Our department enjoys a superlative reputation nationally and internationally, and continues to make important contributions to the understanding of weather, climate and air quality. Your gift will help enhance our educational and research programs in these areas.

Gifts from friends and alumni enable us to provide scholarships, support student activities, and to disseminate a wide range of weather data to the public through our web pages. 

You can direct your support to the department and students in specific areas of study or for undergraduate or graduate students in general:
Funds that Support Atmospheric Sciences

Priority Funds:

Friends of Atmospheric Sciences
Richard and Joan Reed Undergraduate Endowed Scholarship
Atmospheric Sciences Graduate Education Fund

Faculty Named Endowments:

Joost A. Businger Endowed Fellowship in Atmospheric Sciences
Phil Church Fund for Student Support
Robert Fleagle Endowed Graduate Support Fund
Lorraine and Dennis Hartmann Endowed Fellowship in Atmospheric Sciences
Peter V. Hobbs Atmospheric Sciences Quality Enhancement Fund
Hobbs Memorial Endowed Lectureship in Experimental Meteorology
James Holton Endowed Graduate Support Fund
Jan and Conway Leovy Endowed Graduate Support Fund
Stephen G. Warren Endowed Graduate Student Support Fund

All Other Funds:

Atmospheric Sciences Enrollment Support Fund
Bruce Caldwell Memorial Scholarship Fund
Cliff Mass Weather Research Fund
Endowed Visiting Faculty Fellowship in Atmospheric Science Policy
Mindlin Endowed Fund for Undergraduate Student Support
Genevieve and Drew Hamilton Atmospheric Sciences Endowed Student Support Fund
Sally Schoenberg and Randy Poteet Endowed Fund for Student Support
Planned Giving

http://www.washington.edu/giving/planned-giving
Planned gifts provide creative and flexible strategies for your estate and charitable planning. Some planned gifts provide you with income. Many of them can reduce your taxes. The greatest benefit, however, lies in knowing you are supporting work at the University of Washington that is important to you and helpful to others. For more information, please visit the UW's Planned Giving webpage.
Scroll up
Scroll down
Explore Atmospheric Sciences
About People Academics Research Events &
Outreach Alumni &
Friends Current
Weather On the Web
Chair's Welcome
Careers in Atmos Sci
History
Quick Facts
Faculty Authored Books
Contacts & Directions
Giving
Faculty
Staff
Graduate Students
Non-Majors
Undergraduate Program
Graduate Program
Careers in Atmos Sci
Courses
Class Web Pages
Overview
Research Highlights
Areas of Research
Seminars & Colloquia
News & Events
K-12 Outreach
AMS Student Chapter
Faculty Meetings
Alumni Update
Giving
Annual Newsletter
Endowed Lectures
Washington Observations
Northwest Radar
Northwest IR Satellite
UW Forecast
Northwest Modeling
Data & Forecasts
Facebook
Twitter
Visit the UW
Planning a Visit
Student Life
  College of the Environment  |  FAQ  |  Employment  |  MyUW  |  UWIN  |  Privacy  |  Terms  |  Internal         Copyright © 2014 University of Washington