Skip navigation
EXPLORE ANU »










A-Z INDEX »
Plasma Research Laboratory
Research School of Physics & Engineering
ANU College of Physical & Mathematical Sciences
Search PRL

PRL
Home
News
Events
People
Student research projects
Research
Research publications
Contact us
LOCAL INFO
PRL intranet
RELATED SITES
Research School of Physics & Engineering
Australian Plasma Fusion Research Facility
PRL » People » Mr Farshid Salehzahi
Mr Farshid Salehzahi
Mr Farshid Salehzahi is a past member of RSPE contact details and information may no longer be correct
  Position
Visiting Fellow
Department
Plasma Research Laboratory
Email
u3787734@anu.edu.au
About
Biography
I have worked in the field of Medical Physics nearly 20 years. My research is focused on Molecular Physics in Medicine, closing the gap in Radiation Therapy and Diagnosis. I was recently appointed as a Visiting Fellow at Australian National University, Atomic and Molecular Physics Laboratory, Research School of Physics and Engineering. My collaboration with ANU colleagues is closely in line with my research and job interests to improve Molecular Imaging interpretation and efficient treatment solutions. I have a particular interest in Traceability to Standard Laboratory, defining more relevant criteria and practical solutions for current multidisciplinary clinical settings. I am also collaborating with RSPE colleagues at Positron research group to develop a PET contrast to enhance image quality in Positron Emission Tomography.
Collaborations
I am collaborating with RSPE to develop a PET contrast agent and enhance image quality in PET acquisition images.
I have worked with Australian Standard Laboratory arm of ANSTO in the past to initiate the restart of the ongoing Traceability programs in 2014, and to establish a novel approach for pure beta emitters’ traceability, such as Y-90.
Currently, I am working with Radiation Oncology Department of Regional Cancer Centre to implement the Traceability of Molecular Radiation Therapy application used in target delineations to aid treatment planning outcomes.
Research interests
I am interested in Molecular and Nuclear Medicine applications of Physics in imaging, therapy and instrumentation.
Image processing algorithms, quality improvement in Molecular imaging and its applications in therapy and diagnosis.
Technical expertise
Nuclear Medicine, Molecular Imaging, PET technologies, Cyclotrons, Hospital Design, Consultation, Traceability and Standards, Teaching and Research in Image Quality enhancements using contrast and image processing algorithms.
When dialing an ANU extension from outside the university:
(02) 612 XXXXX (within Australia)
+61 2 612 XXXXX (outside Australia)
Where XXXXX is the 5 digit extension number you are after.
Anti-Spam notice: The email addresses from this directory are made available to support the academic and business activities of ANU. These email addresses are not published as an invitation to receive unsolicited commercial messages or 'spam' and we do not consent to receipt of such materials. Any messages that are received which contravenes this policy is strictly prohibited, and is also a breach of the Spam Act 2003. The University reserves the right to recover all costs incurred in the event of breach of this policy.
Edit Your Profile
Updated:  15 June 2016/ Responsible Officer:  Head of Department/ Page Contact:  Physics Webmaster
Contact ANU
Campus Map
Copyright
Disclaimer
Privacy
Freedom of Information
+61 2 6125 5111
The Australian National University, Canberra
CRICOS Provider : 00120C
ABN : 52 234 063 906