Skip to main content
The Ohio State University
Help
BuckeyeLink
Map
Find People
Webmail
Search Ohio State
Department of Plant Pathology

Search form
Search
CFAES
Home
Future Students
Explore and Apply to Grad Programs
Explore and Apply to Undergrad Programs
Student Stories
Contact Us
Explore Careers
Life in Columbus & Wooster
Undergraduate
Overview
Majors
Minor
Courses
General Ed & Intro Courses
PHARM Student Organization
Scholarships
Internships
Undergraduate Research
UGrad News & Awards
Honors and Scholars
Borlaug's Army
Contact Us
Graduate
Top Tier Program
Grad Program Profile
New Professional Master's - MPHM
Grad Corner
Courses
Courses-Other Depts
Grad Student Directory
PP Grad Student Assoc
Grad Handbooks
Grad News & Awards
Grad Publications, Theses/Dissertations
Mentored Teaching, Extension/Outreach
Life in Columbus & Wooster
Quarter Courses
Contact Us
Our People
Faculty
Associated Faculty
Emeritus Faculty
Postdoctoral Scientists
Staff
Graduate Students
Lab / Program Web Pages
Awards and Recognition
Classrooms - Conference Rooms
Undergraduate Students
About Us
About Us
New Faculty Search
50th Anniversary of the Department of Plant Pathology
Life in Columbus & Wooster
Photo Gallery
Directions
Events
Multimedia
Courses
Mission and History
Seminars
Online Courses
News
Contact Us
Research
Overview
Faculty Research Areas
Impact Stories
Plant Growth Facilities
Publications, Current
Multi-Disciplinary Collaborations
Extension/Outreach
Agronomic Crops
Native Plants
Fruit Diseases
Vegetable Diseases
Ornamentals
Turfgrass Diseases
Nature and Ecology
Educational Resources
International Activities
Alumni
A. J. Hoffmann Award
CC Allison Award
Honoring Alumni
Janson Stover Scholarship
Give Now
Research: Faculty Research Areas
You are here
Home » Research
This page includes a list of faculty advisors in Plant Pathology, a brief description of their resarch, and their location (Columbus or Wooster).  Click on faculty name to view their individual profiles.
Terry L. Niblack, Acting Senior Associate Dean, CFAES
Nematology: soybean cyst nematode biology and management; nematodes associated with maize; nematode communities in agroecosystems.  (Columbus)
Pierluigi (Enrico) Bonello, Professor
Molecular and Chemical Ecology of Trees.  Ecological role of tree diseases; chemical ecology of tree/fungal pathogen/insect interactions; systemic disease and insect resistance induced in trees by fungal pathogens; soil type and soil management regime effects on mycorrhizal community structure of trees in simulated urban environments; emerging pathogens and insect pests of trees (the Sudden Oak Death pathogen, Phytophthora ramorum, and the emerald ash borer). (Columbus)
Anne E. Dorrance, Professor
Management systems for soybean diseases; evaluation of soybean populations/cultivars for resistance to Phytophthora sojae and Sclerotinia sclerotiorum; evaluation of seed treatments for Rhizoctonia solani and Phytophthora sojae; evaluation of fungicides for soybean rust management and impact on yield; cultural practices and impact on disease development.  Graduate Studies co-chair, Master in Plant Health Management (Wooster)
Francesca Peduto Hand, Assistant Professor
Detection, characterization, and management of pathogens associated with ornamental crops (greenhouse, nursery/landscape) and turfgrass. (Columbus)
Ivey, Melanie L. Lewis, Assistant Professor
Fruit pathology, fresh produce safety, Extension outreach. (Wooster)
Laurence V. Madden, Acting Chair and Distinguished Professor in Plant Protection
Plant disease epidemiology, pathogen ecology, disease modeling and statistical analysis, and crop loss assessment; fungal diseases of fruit crops and other diseases, with the goals of determining the influence of climate and environment on disease dynamics, and developing disease management strategies based on epidemiological theory and experimentation. (Wooster)
Sally A. Miller, Professor
Sustainable, integrated management approaches for vegetable crop diseases; ecology and transmission of bacterial and phytoplasmal diseases. Bacterial pathogens of peppers and tomatoes; detection and characterization of aster yellows phytoplasma strains in lettuce; development of highly specific molecular markers for detection and quantitation of a microorganism inducing resistance to foliar pathogens.  International development and programming.  (Wooster)
Thomas K. Mitchell, Associate Professor
Fungal biology and parasitism with an emphasis on using modern tools and techniques in molecular biology, genomics, and proteomics to elucidate the molecular underpinnings of virulence  Undergraduate coordinating advisor. (Columbus)
Pierce A. Paul, Associate Professor
Biology, epidemiology, and integrated management of corn and wheat diseases, including Fusarium head blight (FHB) of wheat, powdery mildew, and Stagonospora blotch of wheat. Also: disease forecasting system for FHB of wheat; characterization of the resistance of commonly-cultivated corn hybrids to northern corn leaf blight (NCLB); determination of the race structure of the NCLB pathogen in Ohio; and development of risk-based management decision-making tools for important foliar diseases of corn (gray leaf spot and northern corn leaf blight) and wheat (Stagonospora blotch and powdery mildew).  (Wooster)
Feng Qu,  Associate Professor
Molecular plant virology, plant antiviral defenses, including RNA silencing and resistance gene-mediated defense; interactions between different plant gene products (eg. DCLs, AGOs, and RDRs); and engineering virus resistance in crop plants by enhancing antiviral RNA silencing.  (Wooster)
Margaret G. (Peg) Redinbaugh, USDA ARS and Adjunct Professor
Dr. Redinbaugh is a Research Leader and Research Plant Molecular Geneticist at the USDA/ARS Corn and Soybean Research Unit in Wooster. Her primary research interest is identify and elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying the genetic and biological bases of virus resistance and tolerance in maize. Current approaches to understanding the molecular basis of virus resistance include projects to define the maize response to virus infection at the molecular level, to identify, map and isolate maize genes encoding virus resistance, and to characterize virus replication and distribution of viruses in resistant and susceptible maize germplasm.  (Wooster)
Jason C. Slot, Assistant Professor
Fungal adaptation to ecological roles at the genomic level. Comparative and functional genomics techniques are used in a broad range of fungal species to address research questions such as: How do fungi acquire new metabolic capabilities? How do fungi adapt to biochemical weapons produced by their plant hosts? What are the genomic features that indicate good fungi that are turning bad? (Columbus)
Lucy R. Stewart, USDA ARS and Adjunct Assistant Professor
Dr. Stewart is a Research Molecular Biologist at the USDA/ARS Corn and Soybean Research Unit in Wooster.  Her research areas include plant virology; virus diseases of maize; virus insect transmission determinants and functional assessment of viral genomes.  (Wooster)
Christopher G. Taylor, Associate Professor
Molecular biology of root biotic interactions (nematodes, bacteria, fungi); nematology, biology of root parasitism and symbiosis, plant molecular biology, molecular microbiology  (Wooster)
Guo-Liang Wang, Acting Associate Chair and Professor
Molecular genetics and genomics of plant-microbe Interactions. Mechanism of plant-pathogen interactions and the signal transduction pathways leading to the induction of disease resistance responses; host defense mechansisms.  Both genetic and genomic approaches are used with rice as the model system. Also: novel genomics tools and resources for functional analysis of the rice and maize genomes.   (Columbus)
Ye Xia, Assistant Professor
My research interests are mainly focused on the biochemical, genetic, and molecular mechanisms as well as application of plant disease resistance and beneficial plant-microbe/microbiome interactions to improve plant health and yield for sustainable agriculture.
Ph.D. graduate research assistantship available (Dr. Xia)
- Description: The successful applicant will conduct experiments using a wide range of approaches in biochemistry, genetics, genomics, molecular biology, bioinformatics, metabolomics, and cell biology. The research will aim to study plant surface (cell wall and cuticle) mediated plant immunity against diverse pathogens; and/or improvement of plant immunity and yield by beneficial microbes from phytobiome.
> Read more (pdf)
Overview
Faculty Research Areas
Impact Stories
Plant Growth Facilities
Publications, Current
Multi-Disciplinary Collaborations
© 2017, The Ohio State University
Department of Plant Pathology
201 Kottman Hall
2021 Coffey Road, Columbus, OH 43210
Phone: 614-292-1375
Fax: 614-292-4455
Department of Plant Pathology
Selby Hall
1680 Madison Ave., Wooster, OH 44691
Phone: 330-263-3838
Fax: 330-263-3841
This site designed and maintained by CFAES Marketing and Communications
For technical support please contact the CFAES Helpdesk | Nondiscrimination notice
Give Now
Login
The Ohio State University
College of Food, Agricultural, and Environmental Sciences
Ohio State University Extension
Ohio Agricultural Research and Development Center
Ohio State ATI