UCL Home Prospective students Current students Staff Give
UCL SCHOOL OF PHARMACY
Home
Home
About
Study
Research
News
People
Academic and Research Staff Profiles
Emeritus Professors
Professional Services Contacts
Fellows and Honorary Fellows
Departments
Current Students
Facilities
Alumni
Staff Intranet
Home
About
Study
Research
News
People
Departments
Current Students
Facilities
Alumni
Staff Intranet
UCL Home
UCL School of Pharmacy
People
Academic and Research Staff Profiles
Dr Hardyal S. Gill
Dr Hardyal S. Gill (Sunny)
Academic Tutor in Pharmaceutical Analysis
Tel: 020 7753 5929
hardyal.gill@ucl.ac.uk
Responsibilities
Installation, configuration and troubleshooting of various Analytical instruments - HPLC’s, Gas Chromatography (GC), Inverse Gas Chromatography (i-GC) and DVS/DVS-NIR.
Pharmaceutical Analysis – Technical help in Method Development, Stability Indicating Method, Method Validation, purification, analytical method transfer, and Stability Studies on various analytical instruments.
Trains project students (eg MPharm, MSc and PhD) in use of specialist equipment, analytical techniques and methods.
Research interests
Analytical Method Development and to improve existing analytical methods.
Validation of analytical methods for API and Impurities by ICH or FDA Guidelines.
ICH Guidelines on Impurities in Drug Substances and Drug products. 
Stability Studies in Finished products by ICH guidelines.
Liposomes, Nanosome and Ethosomes for skin delivery.
Teaching interests
PHAYG032 Methods of analysis (Module leader)
MSc Drug Delivery
Qualified Person training (Q3P)
Current collaborations and partnerships
Collaborations with other academic staff in the department, also with the  pharmaceutical industry and NHS Hospitals.
Education
Bachelor of Pharmacy (First class)
Master of Pharmacy in Pharmaceutical Chemistry (First Class), Research project involved synthesis of Pro-Drugs of Non-Steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSIID).
PhD in Pharmaceutical Sciences. Main subjects covered are Chemical synthesis of potential Soft b-Adrenoceptor Agonists for Topical Use in Psoriasis and their pH rate profile using HPLC analysis.
UCL School of Pharmacy  |  29-39 Brunswick Square  |  London WC1N 1AX  |  +44 (0)20 7753 5800  | sop.director@ucl.ac.uk
Dr Hardyal Gill (Sunny)
UCL facilities
Faculties and departments
Library
Museums and Collections
UCL Bloomsbury Theatre
UCL locations
Maps and buildings
UCL and London
UCL Global
Connect with UCL
Alumni
Businesses
Media Relations
Jobs
Support us
University College London, Gower Street, London, WC1E 6BT +44 (0)20 7679 2000
Copyright © 2017 UCL Disclaimer Freedom of Information Accessibility Privacy and Cookies Slavery statement Contact Us