LOGIN
SEARCH
MENU
STUDY
RESEARCH
PARTNER
NEWS & EVENTS
Login
Associate Professor Kay Price
Associate Professor School of Nursing and Midwifery
City East Campus (P4-27) tel +61 8 830 22721 fax +61 8 830 22168
email Kay.Price@unisa.edu.au
Available for media comment Research Degree Supervisor
About me
Thank you for reviewing my homepage. A main focus for me is working through the diversity of issues that surround health and aged care services in order to advance the health and well-being of all people and the profession and discipline of nursing. I am committed to a healthy ageing approach, the quality use of medicines and health technologies, and to enabling people to have greater control over their own lives by supporting them, to the extent that they are capable and wish so to do, to make choices about the types of services they access and the delivery of those services.
My research focuses on the development of new and improved consumer directed methods of care delivery, treatments, and cutting-edge research projects co-designed,... Read more
School of Nursing and Midwifery
The School’s innovative curriculum produces graduates with the skills needed by the health industry, now and into the future.
Orcid
Scopus
ResearcherID
About me
Professional associations
Experience
Research
Research themes
An age friendly world Cancer
Research focus
Public Health and Health Services Nursing Sociology Clinical Sciences Curriculum and Pedagogy
Highlights
A novel approach to influencing self-care - Funded by the Department of Health and Ageing – Sharing Health Care Initiative - $566,511 (2009 - 2011)
Previous research has shown that people who live with chronic conditions desire to live as well as possible and need to feel as if they have some control in their lives. It is evident that people with chronic conditions make different and varied decisions everyday which impact on their health outcomes; they take risks, and learn from their mistakes. Trial and error decisions may have a huge impact on health outcomes, particularly for people living life with cardiovascular disease and diabetes. The conceptualisation of everyday self-care decisions, informed by trial and error practices to ... Read more
Projects
Outputs
Current research & highlights
External engagement & recognition
Collaborations
Collaborations
Teaching & student supervision
Teaching strengths
Critical analytical approaches . Research
Highlights
Research and Research Training
Critical Thinking
Political and professional issues in the health industry
Care of older people in all contexts of care
Quality Use of Medicines
Living with Chronic Illness
Primary health care
Courses and programs
Research degree supervision
International Students
Enquire online
+613 9627 4854
Further contact details
Australian Students
Make an enquiry
08 8302 2376
Further contact details
General Enquiries
08 8302 6611
Further contact details
Links & legal
CRICOS Provider no 00121B
Web accessibility
Disclaimers
Privacy Statement
Copyright 2014
Connect with UniSA Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram
UniSA respects the Kaurna, Boandik and Barngarla peoples’ spiritual relationship with their country.