Taakbalk
NAVIGATIE
INHOUD
home Who is who organizational chart contact intranet nederlands
zoekterm:
QLVL
Profile
Presentations
Publications
Projects

PhDs
Tools and training
Contact
QLVL members - Costanza Asnaghi
  Costanza Asnaghi obtained a Master's Degree in Foreign Languages and Literatures from Università Cattolica of Milan, Italy in 2003. After spending a year in the US working as a Language Instructor at Franklin & Marshall College in Pennsylvania, she obtained her second Master's in Teaching Italian as a Second or Foreign Language from Università Ca' Foscari of Venice, Italy in 2007. Costanza has been teaching languages and linguistics for ten years at different institutions, such as Università Cattolica of Milan, Università degli Studi of Pavia, Politecnico of Milan, IES Abroad Milan. She visited the DFG Graduiertenkolleg on frequency effects in language of the University of Freiburg, Germany in 2012. Costanza defended her joint Ph.D. in English Linguistics at Università Cattolica of Milan and KU Leuven in March 2013.
    E-mail: costanza.asnaghi@gmail.com
Surface mail: Research Unit Linguistics, Blijde-Inkomststraat 21 PO Box 03308, B-3000 Leuven, Belgium
Office: room 02.37 of the Faculty of Arts of the University of Leuven
  Research
The goal of Costanza's research is to identify linguistic features that are regionally patterned. Her focus so far has been written Standard California English. She uses linguistic information to draw maps of regional dialects. Her Ph.D. research is the first survey of linguistic variation in written Standard California English. Together with Jack Grieve, Costanza developed a new method of data collection in order to collect the quantity of data required for a lexical study. The method aims to identify patterns of regional lexical variation using site-restricted web searches in the newspaper domain. She also uses spatial autocorrelation statistics and multidimensional scaling techniques to map her data and obtain geographical patterns of language variation.
Representative publications
Grieve, J., C. Asnaghi, T. Ruette (2014). "Site-restricted web searches for data collection in regional dialectology." American Speech 88 (4), 413-440
Asnaghi, C., D. Geeraerts & D. Speelman (2014). "Geographical patterns of formality variation in written standard California English. Digital Scholarship in the Humanities DOI.
Copyright © KU Leuven | reacties op de inhoud: Thomas Wielfaert
Realisatie: Tom Ruette | Laatste wijziging: 12-06-2015 | Disclaimer