Jump to Main Content
Jump to Navigation
TT
Change Language
viewing site in
English



A-Z Index
Programs and courses
Future students
Faculties
Research
Alumni
Support uOttawa
Department of Theatre
View complete breadcrumb / People / EGERVARI, Tibor
About the Department
Why study Theatre
Programs of study
Season and Tickets
Theatre rentals
Tibor EGERVARI
E-Card
Tibor EGERVARI
Member of the Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies and thereby authorized to supervise theses and Emeritus and Adjunct Professor, Department of Theatre
1960 – Diploma, École supérieure d'art dramatique de l'Est, Strasbourg
Office: 819-778-2215

Work E-mail: egervari@uOttawa.ca
Biography
Member of the Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies and thereby authorized to supervise theses.
Born in Hungary, Tibor Egervari, started his theatrical career at the Centre dramatique de l'Est (today Théâtre national de Strasbourg). In 1965 he joined the National Theatre School of Canada as Assistant Director of the French Section. From 1971 until his retirement in 2004, he has been teaching in the Department of Theatre of the University of Ottawa. He served, for several years, on the Executive Committees of both the Senate and the Board of Governors. He chaired twice the Department of Theatre, was Chairman of the Department of Visual Arts and finished his administrative duties as Acting Dean of the Faculty of Arts (2003-2004).
A stage director by trade, Tibor Egervari has been artistic director of several theatre companies, notably, for fourteen years, of the Théâtre du Peuple (Bussang) France's oldest popular theatre. He also founded and directed Histrions (1996-2009) known for its staged reading of classical plays.
Tibor Egervari has staged more that ninety shows in France and in Canada, has published several articles on director's training and on the relationship between the theatre and its social environment. His play, Shakespeare's Merchant of Venice in Auschwitz has been published in A Certain William; Adapting Shakespeare in Francophone Canada by Playwrights Canada Press (2009).
Awards and achievements
Chevalier des Arts et Lettres (France)
Officier des Palmes académiques (France)
Professor of the Year Award, Faculty of Arts, 2000
La Paix d'Aristophane, adaptation by Hubert Gignoux, decor and costumes by Abd'El Kader Farrah, Strasbourg, 1960
Le Songe d'une nuit d'été, by Shakespeare, decor and costumes by Marie-Hélène Butel, Théâtre du Peuple de Bussang, 1976
Shakespeare's Merchant of Venice in Auschwitz, by Tibor Egervari, decor by Margaret Coderre-Williams, costumes by Angela Haché, Théâtre Distinct, University of Ottawa, 1993
The Emperor of Atlantis, Viktor Ullmann opera, decor and costumes by Sheri Bennett, The Terezin Project, Halifax, 1998
Happy Days, by Beckett, with Terry Tweed and Gilles Provost, Art Penson decor and costumes, Histrions, 2004
Woyzeck, by Georg Büchner, decor by Margaret Coderre-Williams, costumes by Judith De Boer, Comédie des Deux Rives, 2009-08-28
   Fields of Interest
Directing
Histoire du théâtre et de son contexte social
Early modern contact and exploration
Performance studies
Back to top
Department of Theatre 
135 Séraphin-Marion, room 207
Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5
Map
Tel.: 613-562-5761
Fax: 613-562-5993
thesec@uOttawa.ca  
Office hours
Monday to Friday
8:45 a.m. to 12 p.m.
1 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. 
(June to August: closed at 4 p.m.)
Students-uoZone
Employees
Jobs
Media
About uOttawa
Visit the University of Ottawa's LinkedIn profile
Visit the University of Ottawa's Twitter profile
Visit the University of Ottawa's Facebook profile
Visit the University of Ottawa's Youtube profile
Visit the University of Ottawa's Tumblr profile
View all of the University of Ottawa's social profiles
Library
Governance
Policies
Accessibility
Copyright
Contact the University of Ottawa, Canada
On-Campus
Emergency