BACK
Ph.D. Students overivew
Daniele Di Iorio, M.Sc.
Erik Hamming (Master student)
Gülistan Kocer, M.Sc.
Andrea Leoncini, M.Sc.
Sara Longo, M.Sc.
Yao Lu, M.Sc.
Alexander Milbrat, M.Sc.
Jacopo Movilli, M.Sc.
Nico Overeem, M.Sc.
Pramod Patil K, M.Sc.
Andreas Schulz, M.Sc.
Mark Verheijden, M.Sc.
Wouter Vijselaar, M.Sc.
Maike Wiemann, M.Sc.
Fangyuan Xiu, M.Sc.
Nicole Zeijen, M.Sc.
EN| NL| DE
TNW FACULTYMolecular Nanofabrication
PH.D. STUDENTS
WOUTER VIJSELAAR, M.SC.

Name: Wouter Vijselaar
Room: Carre 4.326
Tel: 053 – 489 2933
e-mail: w.j.c.vijselaar@utwente.nl
Wouter Vijselaar was born in Nijeveen, The Netherlands on August 6th, 1986. He studied Advanced Technology at the university of Twente and received his BSc degree in January 2011. The subject of his bachelor thesis was on dielectric properties of sol-gel barium titanate derived films. After his bachelor degree, he pursued his master degree in chemical engineering and received successfully his MSc. degree in January 2013. The research topic during his master assignment was, on a novel method of BaTiO3 patterning and a stability study of the used precursors.
After a year of travelling through Nepal, Indonesia, Thailand, Greece, and The Netherlands, he decided to pursue a PhD in the field of chemistry. Since February 2014, he is a PhD candidate under supervision of Jurriaan Huskens at the University of Twente.
Solar-to-fuel is these days a very widely debated topic and together with the group of Han Gardeniers, they try to tribute to the subject. The aim of his project is to develop a membrane architecture which combines gas separation together with proton conduction. The main challenge lies within the fabrication of the membranes, stitching of separately made anodic and cathodic wire membranes to achieve cathode, -anode, and electrical communication by proton conduction.
Ph.D. students
Wouter Vijselaar, M.Sc.
Share this page
UNIVERSITY OF TWENTE
DRIENERLOLAAN 5
7522 NB ENSCHEDE
0031 53 489 9111
info@utwente.nl
Route
Disclaimer & CopyrightPrivacy & CookiesLast Update 23-11-2016
COOKIES

The websites of the University of Twente use cookies in order to analyse website usage and improve user-friendliness. In addition, we use third-party tracking cookies, for instance to measure user preferences and to enable users to share our content on social media. Read more about cookies.