Jump to navigation
UW HOME UW MEDICINE HOME UW PSYCHIATRY HOME
Public Behavioral Health and Justice Policy
About Us

Faculty
and Staff
Projects and
Programs
Evidence Based
Practice Institute
Evidence Based
Practices for Adults
Smart on
Youth Justice
Initiative
Publications
Search
Aaron R. Lyon, Ph.D.
Assistant Professor
lyona@uw.edu
(206) 221-8604
PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY
Dr. Lyon’s research focuses primarily on promoting mental health practitioner behavior change and the uptake of evidence-based practices (EBP) by clinicians working in schools and community settings. He is particularly interested in (1) the identification and implementation of low-cost, high-yield practices – such as the use of standardized assessment tools for outcome monitoring – to reduce the gap between typical and optimal practice in low-resource service contexts; and (2) the development and adaptation of health-information technologies to support EBP use by community practitioners. Dr. Lyon is Co-Director of the School Mental Health Assessment, Research, and Training (SMART) Center, housed in UW’s School of Medicine and College of Education.
AREAS OF INTEREST
Implementation Science; Health Information Technology; Mental Health Services Research; School Mental Health
ACTIVE PROJECTS
Implementation of a Measurement Feedback System in School Mental Health (A. Lyon, PI). National Institute of Mental Health (K08 MH095939), 2012-2017
Delivery of Evidence-Based Treatment to Underserved Youth: Improving Intervention-Setting Fit in School Mental Health (A. Lyon, PI), American Psychological Foundation (2012-2013)
Brief Intervention for School Clinicians (BRISC): A Modularized, Evidence-Informed Mental Health Treatment for Use by School Clinicians Working with High School Students (E. McCauley & E. Bruns, Co-PIs), Institute of Education Sciences (R305A120128), 2012-2015
Seattle Implementation Research Collaborative: Research Series (C. Comtois & C. Lewis, PIs), National Institute of Mental Health, 2010-2015
Comprehensive Review of Digital Client Progress Monitoring and Feedback Systems in Mental Health
House Bill 2536
School Mental Health Assessment, Research, and Training (SMART) Center 
PUBLICATIONS
"If it's worth my time, I will make the time": School-based providers' decision-making about participating in an evidence-based psychotherapy consultation program.
A case for modular design: Implications for implementing evidence-based interventions with culturally-diverse youth.
From distal to proximal: Routine educational data monitoring in school-based mental health.
Implementation science in school mental health: Key constructs and a proposed research agenda.
Patterns and predictors of mental healthcare utilization in schools and other service sectors among adolescents at risk for depression.
Taking evidence-based practices to school: Using expert opinion to develop a brief, evidence-informed school-based mental health intervention.
Using modular psychotherapy in school mental health: Provider perspectives on intervention-setting fit.
The Division of Public Behavioral Health and Justice Policy (PBHJP) is a component of The Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences at The University of Washington School of Medicine
Contact us Connect with us!
[ Login ]