News & Events
Alumni
Library
LLM / SJD
MyLaw
Give
Search:
Submit
THE UCLA LAW DIFFERENCE
ACADEMICS
FACULTY
CENTERS
STUDENT LIFE
CAREERS
ADMISSIONS
Home
Faculty
Faculty Profiles
Biography
Faculty
Faculty Profiles
Full-Time Faculty
>>Tenured and Tenure-Track Faculty
Emeritus Faculty
Visiting and Affiliated Faculty
Program Directors and Academic Administrators
Part-Time Faculty
Academic and Research Fellows
Recent Faculty Scholarship
Faculty Profiles
back to Faculty Profiles
Beth Colgan
Assistant Professor of Law
B.A. Stanford University, 1995
J.D. Northwestern University School of Law, 2000
UCLA Faculty Since 2014
Biography
Bibliography
Courses
Beth Colgan is Assistant Professor of Law at UCLA School of Law.  Her primary research and teaching interests are in criminal law and procedure and juvenile justice.  Prior to joining the Law School, she was a Thomas C. Grey Fellow and Lecturer in Law at Stanford Law School.
Professor Colgan earned her B.A. from Stanford University and her J.D. from Northwestern University School of Law, where she was Note and Comment Editor of the Northwestern Law Review, a member of the National Moot Court Team, and the recipient of the Wigmore Key award.  After law school, she worked as an associate for Perkins Coie LLP (2000-05), where she litigated a variety of matters in federal and state court and engaged in extensive pro bono work focusing primarily on access to competent indigent defense counsel in rural Washington and post-conviction representation of juveniles tried in adult criminal courts.  From 2006-11, Professor Colgan worked as the Managing Attorney of the Institutions Project at Columbia Legal Services, representing juveniles and adults confined in prisons, jails, mental health facilities, and immigration detention in civil rights litigation, collateral appeals, and legislative advocacy. Professor Colgan has been recognized for her work on criminal and juvenile justice reform, including the Washington State Bar Association Thomas Neville Pro Bono Award, the Northwestern University Children & Family Justice Center Alumni Award, and the Stanford Law School Pro Bono Distinction Award. She continues to serve the criminal justice community as a consultant on issues related to punishment, access to counsel, and juvenile justice, and as a member of the Board of Directors of the Justice Policy Institute.
Professor Colgan’s scholarship—which focuses on criminal and juvenile justice—centers the relationship between constitutional interpretation and the practical effects of the law.  She is particularly interested in the constitutional relevance of the full range of punitive consequences of arrest and conviction and of the individual characteristics of defendants. Professor Colgan’s work also addresses the systemic consequences of constitutional interpretation (e.g., underfunding of indigent defense systems). Her recent scholarship has appeared in the California Law Review, Iowa Law Review, and the Stanford Journal of Civil Rights & Civil Liberties.
CONTACT INFORMATION
UCLA School of Law
385 Charles E. Young Dr. East
Los Angeles, CA, 90095
colgan@law.ucla.edu

About UCLA Law
UCLA Directory
Publications
Employers
Visiting Scholars & Researchers
Terms of Use & Privacy Policy
UCLA School of Law, 385 Charles E. Young Drive East, 1242 Law Building, Los Angeles, California 90095
Directions
(310) 825-4841
Follow Us:
© Copyright 2017 The Regents of the University of California. UCLA School of Law. All Rights Reserved. V1.0
­