Quick Links
McGill University
Jewish Studies מדעי היהדות
McGill.CA / JEWISH STUDIES מדעי היהדות / Faculty
Section navigation
Home
Faculty
David Aberbach
Liane Alitowski
Eric Caplan
Lea Fima
Carlos Fraenkel, Chair
Esther Frank
Yael Halevi-Wise
Daniel Kupfert Heller
Gershon D. Hundert
Lawrence Kaplan
B. Barry Levy
Ori Yehudai
Administration
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Areas of Study
Courses and Syllabi
Jewish Teacher Training Program
Hebrew Placement and Credit Transfer
Internships
Scholarships/Fellowships
Publications
Dorot: The McGill Undergraduate Journal of Jewish Studies
Resources
Events
Postdoctoral Fellowship
Learning Fellowship
Jobs
Liane Alitowski, Lecturer
Area of Interest:
Jewish Music and Society
Education:
B. Music, M. Music (Indiana University),
D.M.A. (Stony Brook University)
Liane Alitowski, received her Doctor of Musical Arts degree from Stony Brook University in New York where she worked with pianist, Gil Kalish, and ethnomusicologist, Dr. Jane Sugarman.

A versatile solo pianist and chamber musician, Dr. Alitowski has performed throughout the Americas, the United Kingdom, Israel and Japan. She completed her undergraduate studies at Indiana University where she studied with Menahem Pressler, of the Beaux Arts Trio. During that period, she was awarded the Indiana University Performer's Certificate, a scholarship to participate at the Banff Festival of the Arts, and a fellowship from the Spanish Cultural Embassy to perform recitals throughout Spain.

As the first resident orchestral pianist with Michael Tilson Thomas' New World Symphony, Dr. Alitowski has collaborated with artists that include Joshua Bell, Sharon Robinson, Jean-Yves Thibaudet, the Miami String Quartet, the Lincoln Center Chamber Music Society, and the late Audrey Hepburn. She has been featured on WPBT's "Spotlight Performances," as well as nationally on WPBS’ “Great Performances.”

Outside of the concert stage (and as an outgrowth of her doctoral studies), Dr. Alitowski has done extensive academic work in the field of Jewish music. As such, she has taught on the faculties of The Paideia Institute for Jewish Studies in Sweden, Tel Aviv University in Israel, and the University of Notre Dame in the US.

Her discography includes: “Liane Alitowski plays Haydn, Chopin and Ravel,” recorded at Klavierhaus Studios in New York in 1997, and, “Liane Alitowski plays Beethoven, Debussy and Messiaen - A Live Performance,” recorded in New York in 2004.
Related Content
CONTACT INFORMATION
Office:
Leacock building
Room 835

Phone Number:
(514) 398-5298
Email:
Liane Alitowski

Office Hours:
by appointment only
Department and University Information
Column 1
Column 2
Column 3
Department of Jewish Studies
Leacock Building, 7th floor
855 Sherbrooke Street West
Montreal, Quebec H3A 2T7
Tel.: 514-398-6543
Sign in (site maintenance)
Copyright © 2017 McGill University