Accessibility links
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
Skip to footer
Search
LEARN
RESEARCH
CONNECT
EXPLORE
Login
Toggle search
Dr Noni Keys
Breadcrumbs
... Structure Faculty of Arts, Business and Law Staff
Welcome from the Executive Dean
About the Faculty
School of Business
School of Communication and Creative Industries
School of Social Sciences
USC Law School
Engagement
Faculty research areas
Staff
Contact the Faculty of Arts, Business and Law
Associate Lecturer in Communication
PhD Sunshine Coast, GD TESOL Canberra, MPhil Griff., BSc(Hons) Vic.(Aust.)
EMAIL
nkeys@usc.edu.au
TELEPHONE
+61 7 5456 5949
OFFICE LOCATION
D-G.10
USC Research Bank: Dr Noni Keys' publications
Teaching areas
Foundations of Sustainability
Empowering Individuals for Sustainability
Research areas
community opinion leaders and sustainability
adaptive capacity
response capacity to climate change
Profile
Dr Noni Keys is an associate lecturer in Communication with the School of Communication and Creative Industries at the University of the Sunshine Coast.
Prior to her appointment with USC, Noni worked as a research assistant on studies related to adaptive capacity and on adaptive capacity to climate change in particular. Noni's PhD thesis was on the potential role of community opinion leaders to foster responses to complex sustainability issues such as climate change. It was conducted in the Sunshine Coast region in conjunction with the South East Queensland Climate Adaptation Research Initiative, a collaboration between USC, University of Queensland, Griffith University and CSIRO.
Professional memberships
Institute of Australian Geographers
Awards
USC Advance Awards, 2016: AQT award for Advancing Quality Teaching. Awarded to teaching staff and teaching teams who engage students in a quality learning experience by applying rich and engaging teaching approaches that substantially improve students' learning experiences. Awarded to the COR109 team (including Noni Keys)
Maps and directions
Campus security and emergencies
A-Z Directory
Online payments
Website feedback
askUSC
Contact us
Accessibility  Copyright Disclaimer Privacy Right to information
Last updated: 5 May 2017
ABN 28 441 859 157
CRICOS Provider No. 01595D
The University of the Sunshine Coast acknowledges the Traditional Custodians of the land on which its campuses sit. We recognise and pay respect to Elders past, present and emerging.