Calendar
Library
Maps
Online Services
Make a Gift
Department of Animal and Rangeland Sciences
Department of Animal and Rangeland Sciences
Home
Academics
- Undergraduates
-- Advising Appointment
- Graduate Students
- Activities & Clubs
- Scholarships
Animal Sciences
- Beef
- Companion Animals
- Dairy
- Equine Science
- Meats
- Poultry
- Sheep
- Steer-A-Year
- Swine
Rangeland Sciences
Employment & Internships
- Career Opportunities
- Internships
People
About
- Alumni and Donors
- Faculty and Staff Resources
- Newsletters
- Visiting the Department
- Withycombe Club
College of Agricultural Sciences
Home » Massimo Bionaz
Featured Sites
Department of Animal and Rangeland Sciences
Dairy
Swine
Links
Bionaz's lab
Dynamic Impact Approach
Publications (pubmed only)
Tags
Bionaz
Dynamic Impact Approach
Nutrigenomics
Peroxisome Proliferator-activated Receptor
Dairy cows
Goat
Massimo Bionaz
Assistant Professor
OSU Campus
Department of Animal and Rangeland Sciences
560 Weniger Hall
Corvallis, OR 97331
United States
See map: Google Maps
541-737-9507
massimo.bionaz@oregonstate.edu
CV/Resume: 
Massimo Bionaz CV March 2017.pdf
Research
(1) Nutrigenomics in dairy cows: development of high-throughput systems to study nutrigenomics; fine-tuning the metabolism through nutrients; transcriptomic and epigenomic effects of long-chain fatty acids; and nutritional genomics during transition from pregnancy to lactation.
(2) Milk and human health: effects of milk on obesity and bone development/regeneration, especially considering  mesenchymal stem cells and micro RNA present in milk's exosomes; effect of milk miRNA on immune system 
(3) Welfare and management of dairy cows: significance and effects of inflammatory-like conditions during peripartum; development of an integrative welfare system for dairy farms; and relationship between management and animal welfare.
(4) Systems biology: further development of the Dynamic Impacts Approach for use with omics dataset from complex experimental design, such as time course and multiple treatments experiments.
  Teaching
ANS 439/539 - Dairy Production Systems (4 credits, taught every fall quarter; topics covered by the class include: basics anatomy and physiology of dairy cows with emphasis on the peripartum period, nutrition and ration balancing, milk synthesis and mastitis, raising calves and heifers, buildings and facilities, milking procedures, milk price in US, manure and grazing management, animal welfare, and milk and human health. Visit and professional reports of the OSU Dairy Center and [optional] two commercial dairy farms)
ANS 538 - Lactation Biology (3 credits, taught every Spring term. Topics covered by the class include: mammary evolution, mammary macro and micro anatomy and systemic lactation physiology, milk synthesis, mastitis, transcriptomic regulation, and milk composition and quality)
ANS 505 - Reading and Conference (1 credit, taught every term. I cover topics related to writing research papers and presenting scientific data)
ANS 401 - Research in Molecular Nutrition (1-16 credits, taught every term. Students must be involved in ongoing research in my lab [the amount is dictated by the number of credits selected], plus they need to participate to our lab meeting and I meet with students every two weeks for an open discussion about any scientific topic)
ANS 599 - Special Topics (1 credit, taught every term. The students need to read scientific papers - including reviews - about specific topics and discuss the paper in class)
  Biography
Ph.D. Physiopathology in Dairy Cow, Instituto di Zootecnica, Universitá Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Piacenza, Italy, 2004
B.S./M.S. Animal Nutrition, Universitá Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Piacenza, Italy, 2000
I accept graduate students for Animal and Rangeland Sciences
Fun Fact
I grew up spending summers grazing cows in the Alp, milking cows by hand, and making Fontina cheese

   Like us on Facebook!
HIGHLIGHTS
Porcine Reproductive & Respiratory Syndrome Workshop - May 1, 2017
April 20, 2017 - May 1, 2017
How Much Do Cats and Dogs Remember?
from OSU Today 04/10/17 Article on the "Human Animal Interactions" research by Dr. Monique Udell, Asst. Prof.
Lambing Season Volunteers Needed
November 9, 2016 - January 9, 2017
Department of Animal and Rangeland Sciences
112 Withycombe Hall
Corvallis, OR 97331
Phone: (541) 737-3431
Fax: (541) 737-4174
Email: animal.sciences at oregonstate.edu
Copyright © 2014
Oregon State University
Disclaimer
Log in
Academics
Undergraduates
Graduates
Activities and Clubs
Scholarships
Jobs and Internships
Animal Science
Beef
Companion Animals
Dairy
Horse
Meats
Poultry
Sheep
Swine
Rangeland Sciences