Campuses : Twin Cities Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Other Locations


myU
OneStop



About BTI
Faculty
Services
Seminars & Academics
Initiatives & Programs
Resources
Contact Us

Alptekin Aksan
Brett Barney
Sebastain Behrens
Daniel Bond
Antony Dean
Mark Distefano
Gary Dunny
Mikael Elias
Mike Freeman
Jeffrey Gralnick
Will Harcombe
Raymond Hozalski
Bo Hu
Wei-Shou Hu
Satoshi Ishii
George Karypis
Romas Kazlauskas
Yiannis Kaznessis
Arkady Khodursky
Alex Khoruts
Linda Kinkel
Dan Knights
Tim Lapara
Igor Libourel
Gary Muehlbauer
Chad Myers
Paige Novak
Michael Sadowsky
Christine Salomon
Cara Santelli
Casim Sarkar
Jonathan Schilling
Claudia Schmidt-Dannert
Burckhard Seelig
Mike Smanski
Friedrich Srienc
Brandy Toner
Michael Travisano
Ken Valentas
Larry Wackett
Ping Wang
Cary Wilmot
Kechun Zhang


CONTACT US

BioTechnology Institute
University of Minnesota
140 Gortner Labs
1479 Gortner Avenue
St. Paul, MN 55108-6106

612-624-6774
612-625-5780 FAX
bti@umn.edu
Lawrence P. Wackett
Research Interests
Biodegradation; bioremediation; biosynthesis of hydrocarbons; enzymology; computational methods for predicting reactivity
New Approaches in Biocatalysis and Biodegradation
Professor Wackett’s laboratory studies microbial enzymes that are useful for biodegradation and industrial biocatalysis.
Biodegradation studies are focused on atrazine (a herbicide), cyanuric acid (used in water disinfection), acrylamide (found in mining waters and foods), and aromatic hydrocarbons (from fossil fuel mining). The laboratory studies the structure and function of the enzymes by using wet lab and computational methods. The structures and mechanisms of atrazine chlorohydrolase and cyanuric acid hydrolase are under study. For bioremediation, the Wackett laboratory collaborates with Professor Alptekin Aksan (Mechanical Engineering and BTI) to engineer silica microspheres and fibers for encapsulating bacteria that contain enzymes to degrade specific chemicals of interest. These biomaterials are currently being marketed to treat waters containing single chemicals or mixed wastes such as produced waters from hydraulic fracturing operations.
In the area of biocatalysis, the Wackett laboratory works with the Wilmot Laboratory (Biochemistry and BTI) and the Lipscomb Laboratory (Biochemistry) to investigate the enzymatic basis of microbial hydrocarbon biosynthesis. In the first example, several hundred bacteria biosynthesize long-chain olefinic hydrocarbons that derive from a head-to-head condensation of fatty acids using proteins designated as OleABCD. The X-ray structure of the condensing enzyme, OleA, has been determined and its mechanism studied. The OleBCD proteins combine with OleA to produce the final olefin products and the structure and mechanism of the Ole proteins are being investigated. With Professor Lipscomb, the laboratory studies aldehyde deformylating oxygenase, a unique binuclear iron protein that generates diesel length alkanes from fatty aldehyde precursors.
In our computational research, we helped develop the University of Minnesota Biocatalysis/Biodegradation Database (http://umbbd.ethz.ch), the related metabolic pathway prediction tool, and seek to expand the use of computational methods to optimally select enzymes for specific biotransformation tasks.
WACKETT HOME PAGE
Click here to visit Larry Wackett's Home Page
LAWRENCE P. WACKETT
Professor

Dept. of Biochemistry, Molecular Biology
and Biophysics
BioTechnology Institute

wacke003@umn.edu
156 Gortner
612-625-3785 office
612-624-4278 lab
 
© 2010 Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights reserved.
The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer.
Last modified on Oct. 14, 2010
Twin Cities Campus: Parking & Transportation Maps & Directions

Directories Contact U of M Privacy
 