Skip to main content
SMHS Links
GW Links
Info For
HOME
ABOUT
ACADEMICS
DEPARTMENTS
PROGRAMS
RESEARCH
FACULTY
NEWS
EVENTS
ALUMNI
GIVE
You are here: Home / Faculty / Faculty Directory
Faculty Directory
David Scalzitti
Assistant Professor of Physical Therapy and Health Care Sciences

Office Phone: 202-994-7831
Email:
Department: Physical Therapy and Health Care Sciences
Education
B.S., University of Illinois, Chicago, 1987
M.S., University of Illinois, Chicago, 1995
PhD, University of Illinois, Chicago, 2008
Biography
Dr. Scalzitti is assistant professor of physical therapy and health care sciences at GW School of Medicine and Health Sciences. He is a frequent guest lecturer on evidence-based practice for numerous physical therapy education programs. He has published frequently on clinical research and evidence-based physical therapy practice, and has served on an editorial advisory committee for Physical Therapy. In addition, Dr. Scalzitti has been a contributing author to The Rehabilitation Specialist’s Handbook, including the most recent edition published in 2013.

In May 2013 Scalzitti was named a recipient of the Distinguished Alumni Achievement Award from the University of Illinois at Chicago College of Applied Health Sciences. The Distinguished Alumni Achievement Award is the highest honor bestowed upon alumni of that school. Established in 1987, the award is presented to those alumni who have attained outstanding success and national or international distinction in their chosen profession or life’s work, and whose accomplishments reflect admirably on or bring honor to their alma mater. Scalzitti, who earned a bachelor’s in physical therapy in 1987, a master’s in kinesiology in 1994, and a doctorate in disability studies in 2008—all from the UIC College of Applied Health Sciences—was also an instructor in the college’s Department of Physical Therapy for 10 years.

Until spring 2013, Scalzitti worked as lead specialist in the Evidence-Based Resources Department of the American Physical Therapy Association, where he was a leader in moving the profession toward evidence-based practice. As an associate editor of multiple APTA resources, he played a critical role in digesting and delivering the substance of complex research articles to practicing therapists—all with the goal of helping therapists improve patient outcomes, reduce unwarranted variation in practice, and demonstrate value to the health care system.
Research
Dr. Scalzitti has experience in the synthesis of research evidence, including twelve years developing and coordination two evidence-based databases for the American Physical Therapy Association. His research focuses on the dissemination of research for practice. He is currently working on a number of systematic reviews related to physical therapist practice and is a member of a team of international clinicians developing four clinical practice guidelines for the management of knee conditions.
Programs
Physical Therapy
Translational Health Sciences
Publications
View publications by this faculty member from January 1, 2013 - present
Additional publications published before January 1, 2013 may be available within Himmelfarb Library's database.
Industry Relationships and Collaborations
This faculty member (or a member of their immediate family) has a significant financial interest with the healthcare related companies listed below. These relations have been reported to the University and, when appropriate, management plans are in place to address potential conflicts.
None


ABOUT THE FACULTY
FACULTY DIRECTORY
APPOINTMENTS, PROMOTIONS, & TENURE
LIMITED SERVICE FACULTY
ANNUAL REPORTS & CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
CAREER DEVELOPMENT
FACULTY DEVELOPMENT
FACULTY ASSEMBLY
POLICIES
ADMINISTRATORS
CONTACT FACULTY AFFAIRS
SABBATICAL & EMERITUS
Contact Us
Office of Faculty Affairs
The George Washington University
School of Medicine and Health Sciences
2300 Eye Street, NW
Suite 730
Washington, DC 20037
Phone: (202) 994-3266
Fax: (202) 994-9994
Email: smhsfacaffairs@gwu.edu
Office hours: Monday-Friday, 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.
The School of Medicine & Health Sciences
Find Your Doctor|GW Hospital|Himmelfarb Library|Offices Directory|Sitemap
Facebook
@GWSMHS
@GWSMHS
YouTube
LinkedIn
RSS
Ross Hall 2300 Eye Street, NW, Washington, DC 20037
smhsnews@gwu.edu
The George Washington University
Campus Advisories
Copyright
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Contact GW
A - Z Index