Skip to main
Skip to footer
University of Waterloo
ADMISSIONS ABOUT WATERLOO FACULTIES & ACADEMICS OFFICES & SERVICES SUPPORT WATERLOO
SEARCH
OPTOMETRY & VISION SCIENCE
Optometry and Vision Science home
About Optometry and Vision Science
Resources and services
Research
News
Events
Employment opportunities
INFORMATION FOR
Future optometry students
Future graduate students
Future residents
International applicants
Alumni and friends
Current students
Patients
You are here
Optometry & Vision Science » People profiles »
C. Lisa Prokopich
FILTER
Clinical Professor
OD (Waterloo), MSc (Waterloo)
Email: clp@uwaterloo.ca
Telephone: (519) 888-4567 ext. 35153
Fax: (519) 884-2727
Office: OPT 373
Biography
Lisa Prokopich received her Doctor of Optometry degree at the University of Waterloo in 1990, after which time she undertook Residency training at the Eye Institute of the Pennsylvania College of Optometry in Philadelphia (now Salus University) with an emphasis on ocular disease management. She returned to the University of Waterloo in 1991 where she has been a Clinical Lecturer and Head of the Ocular Health Clinic. Prokopich has been very involved in the proposals to the government on changes in legislation for optometrists to prescribe therapeutic pharmaceutical agents, both in Ontario and in other provinces. As Continuing Education Chair for over a decade, she spear-headed multiple 100-hour and 20-hour Therapeutic Pharmaceutical Agent (TPA) courses in preparation for TPAs in various provinces in Canada, culminating in Ontario's TPA law being implemented in 2011. She ran optometric and ophthalmological services at the Vision Centre within the Grand River Hospital Corporation at the Freeport Community Health Centre, a chronic care facility, for many years, holding hospital privileges there. She maintains significant patient populations in glaucoma and ocular surface disease.
Prokopich's interests and teaching focus have been in the areas of ocular disease management, teaching various courses in clinical ocular pharmacology, therapeutics, case-based ocular disease management, clinical medicine in optometric practise, and advanced case-studies (grand rounds) for final year students. She is involved in her fourth curriculum revision since returning to the Waterloo's School of Optometry and Vision Science, with a focus on the Biomedical stream of the curriculum. She has authored chapters in textbooks in clinical techniques and pharmacology, including Clinical Ocular Pharmacology, 4th edition. Prokopich achieved her Masters in Vision Science in 2004, obtaining the first Canadian National Institute for the Blind (CNIB) / E.A. Baker fellowship awarded to an optometrist.
Research
Areas of clinical and research interest include ocular surface disease, glaucoma, pharmaceutical therapies for ocular disease, and retinal disease. Teaching interests are related and focus on honing clinical techniques in laboratories as well as applying case data to problem-oriented learning in the diagnosis and management of ocular disease.
Clinic duties
Registered optometrist, O.D. (Waterloo)
Supervising clinician
TOP
SHARE
    Support Optometry and Vision Science
Newsletter
Optometry clinics
Contact us
Directions
Website feedback
200 University Avenue West
Waterloo, ON, Canada  N2L 3G1
+1 519 888 4567
CONTACT WATERLOO
MAPS & DIRECTIONS
WATSAFE
ACCESSIBILITY
PRIVACY
COPYRIGHT
MEDIA
CAREERS
FEEDBACK
facebook
twitter
youtube
instagram
linkedin
@uwaterloo social directory
LOG IN