Skip navigation
All of Monash
Medicine Faculty
Staff Intranet   |   Staff Directory
Home
About Us
Study
Research
Industry
Alumni
News and Events
Giving to the faculty
Monash University > Medicine, Nursing and Health Sciences > Psych > School > Staff >
Dr Ziarih Hawi
School Home
About the School
Our People
Our Research
Our Courses
Graduate Research Programs
How to Become a Psychologist
Psychology Career Opportunities
Contact Us
Intranet
my.monash
Dr Ziarih Hawi
Research Fellow
Career to Date
Dr Ziarih Hawi received his first-class honours degree from Baghdad University, Iraq with Bachelor degree in Biology. He completed his master degree in Biochemical Genetics at Strathclyde University, Scotland. During his Master degree, Dr Hawi identified and partially characterized a new protein (named haptoglobin related) which is expressed in blood and has the capacity to bind hemoglobin.  Recently, it has been reported that this protein has oxidative activity to kill trypanosomes; Trypanosome brucei gambiense and Trypanosome brucei rhodesiense, which are responsible for African sleeping sickness in human and animals.

During his Ph.D research at the University of Newcastle Upon Tyne, England, Dr Hawi investigated the role of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) genes in human autoimmune diseases (rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis and Wagner Granulamatosis). His Ph.D work resulted in the identification of associations between the genes of MHC and the above diseases. Further characterization of existing associations between the MHC genes and rheumatoid arthritis and multiple sclerosis were also carried out at molecular level.

Following completion of his PhD in 1995, Dr Hawi was appointed as Post-doctoral Research Fellow in the laboratory of Professor Michael Gill at the Genetics Department, The University of Dublin (Trinity College). Under the supervisor of Prof Gill, Dr Hawi successfully established and ran the Neuropsychiatric Genetic Research Group. Dr Hawi successfully supervised to completion 3 Ph.D, 3 M.D, 6 Masters and 7 honours projects.  In 2005, Dr hawi was appointed as lecturer in Genetics until his relocation to the Queensland Brain Institute, University of Queensland.  Since his relocation to Monash University, Dr Hawi has been appointed as Senior Research Fellow and has established the functional genomics research facility with the laboratory of Professor Bellgrove in the School of Psychological Sciences. Dr Hawi has gained wide international recognition for successfully mapping several susceptibility loci for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. These include but not limited to dopamine receptor 5, dopamine beta hydroxylase, tryptophan hydroxylase 2 and the synaptosomal associated protein 25.
Research Focus
Dr Hawi currently runs the Functional Genomics Facility of the Bellgrove laboratory. The focus of our research is to map and functionally characterize susceptibility loci for psychiatric conditions including but not limited to attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). The Functional Genomics Facility also focuses on understanding the underlying genetic influences on cognitive traits such as attention, impulse control, working memory and error processing.
Honours and Distinctions
Iraqi Government Scholarship to study for M.Sc. and Ph.D in Human Genetics.
Generated over € 1.1 million of funding (CI-A) to support the Psychiatric Genetic Research from the health research Board in Dublin, Ireland.
Since his relocation to Australia (2010), Dr Hawi has awarded 3 NHMRC grants totalling of A$ ~1.7 million as CI-A, CI-B and CI-D. 
Member of the editorial board of the on line peer reviewed journal Genetic Research International, Genes and the American Journal of Medical Genetics (2008-2012).
Research Profile
Dr Ziarih Hawi research profile
About Us
Dean's message
Heads of Schools, Departments and Institutes
Faculty leadership and senior management
Schools and departments
Centres and institutes
Monash University Medical Foundation
Indigenous Health
Diversity and inclusion
Contact us
Study
Current students
Future students
Study.Monash
Alternative pathways
Research
How we do research
Research capabilities
Centres and institutes
Postgraduate research
Find an expert
Industry
Why work with us
Ways we can help your business
Contact the BDM team
Find an expert
Alumni
Alumni newsletter
Faculty events
Monash University Medical Foundation
Holding a reunion
Meet our alumni
Update your details
Contact us
News and events
Upcoming events
Latest news
Staff
Intranet
My.Monash Portal
ESS
Professional Development
Facilities and Services
eSolutions
Copyright © 2017 Monash University ABN 12 377 614 012 – Caution – Privacy – Monash University CRICOS Provider Number: 00008C, Monash College CRICOS Provider Number: 01857J – Last updated: 29 August 2014 – Maintained by webmaster@med.monash.edu.au – Accessibility information