Skip to main content
UC Davis Health | News | Careers | Giving | UC Davis
Clinical Services
Our Team
Patients & Visitors
Appointments & Referrals
Newsroom
About Us
Map & Directions
UC Davis HealthMedical CenterChildren’s Hospital Our Team
The Children’s Hospital team
Our pediatricians and specialists
All registered nurse (RN) nursing staff
Our nurse managers
Child Life and Creative Arts Therapy Department staff
Home care services
Medical social workers and other professionals
Young adult bereavement support
Lindsey Loomba-Albrecht, M.D.

Printable PDF
Download vCard
Specialties
Pediatric Endocrinology
Department
Pediatrics
Title
Assistant Clinical Professor
Associate Program Director for the Pediatric Residency Program
To see if Lindsey Loomba-Albrecht is accepting new patients, or for assistance finding a UC Davis doctor, please call 800-2-UCDAVIS (800-282-3284).
Location, Directions and Contact Info




Overview
Education
Honors
Publications
Philosophy of Care
I believe strongly in evidence based medicine, but also in tailoring the treatment plan to the individual patient and family. I value open communication and strive to make sure that families understand both the big picture and the details of the medical condition. A new medical diagnosis in a child is often a time of crisis for families; I recognize the stress that the diagnosis generates and will do my best to help ease fears. When a child has a particularly rare condition, I love seeking input from outside experts.
Clinical Interests
I have a longstanding interest in genetics, and have a particular interest in endocrine conditions in children with genetic conditions (including differences in sex development, pituitary hormone deficiencies and disorders of puberty). I also care for children with a wide range of other conditions, including type one diabetes, thyroid conditions, bone disorders and short stature.
Research/Academic Interests
Currently, I am active in research looking into how family functioning affects blood sugar control in children with type 1 diabetes. This is part of a larger effort -- our diabetes clinic as a whole is wholeheartedly committed to improving care for diabetic children. I am also active in pediatric resident educational efforts and medical student teaching.
Division
Pediatric Endocrinology
Center/Program Affiliation
UC Davis Children's Hospital
Ways to help
Your online donations make a big difference to our patients at UC Davis Children’s Hospital.  
Donate online »
Guide to pediatric services
UC Davis Children's Hospital is helping children reach their full potential. Download our guide to pediatric services to understand the full range of pediatric specialty care, services and programs we offer. Available in English and Spanish. See publications »
  Quick links and other resources
About UC Davis Children’s Hospital
Family & Visitor Information
Map & Directions
UC Davis Health
UC Davis
UC DAVIS CHILDREN’S HOSPITAL
2315 Stockton Blvd.  |  Sacramento, CA 95817  |  Contact Phone: 1-800-UCD-4-KIDS  |  24-Hour Operator: 916-734-2011
© 2017 UC Regents. All Rights Reserved  |  Legal  |  Jobs  |  About Us  |  Contact Us
AddThis Sharing Sidebar
Share to Facebook
, Number of shares
Share to Twitter
Share to Google+
Share to LinkedIn
, Number of shares
Share to Pinterest
, Number of shares
Share to Email
More AddThis Share options
, Number of shares