University Of Southern California
Rossier School Of Education
Skip to content Skip to secondary content
search
About
Programs
Admissions & Financial Aid
Events
Faculty & Research
News
Giving
Rossier Audiences
ALUMNI STUDENTS FACULTY STAFF
Breadcrumb Navigation
Home | Faculty & Research | Faculty Directories | Faculty A – Z | Profile
John A. Roach
Adjunct Assistant
Contact info
johnroac@usc.edu
Concentration
K-12 Education Policy
John A. Roach
Dr. John Roach is a Adjunct Assistant in the Rossier School of Education’s Doctorate in Educational Leadership program.  He was hired by the Board of Trustees on April 17, 2004 as the Carlsbad Unified School District Superintendent and retired on June 30, 2012, after serving eight years. 
Dr. John Roach has 34 years of successful education experience. He began his career as a teacher in Lennox, California. In 1979, he was hired as a teaching principal in the Brea-Olinda School District. While in Brea, Dr. Roach served as an elementary principal, a high school assistant principal and the district’s Coordinator of Curriculum and Staff Development. In 1986, he became a middle school principal in the East Whittier district and in 1991 Dr. Roach was named Assistant Superintendent of Educational Services for Charter Oak Unified School District. During his time at Charter Oak Unified School District, Dr. Roach was responsible for certificated personnel, facilities, maintenance, technology, and purchasing. In 1998, the Charter Oak Board of Trustees appointed him Superintendent and he remained there until his departure for Carlsbad.
Once arriving in Carlsbad, Dr. Roach embraced the vision of the Carlsbad Unified School District and worked as a member of the Governance Team in conjunction with the members of the Board of Trustees to implement that vision to bring world-class status to Carlsbad schools. He is very proud of the support that the community provided to get Proposition P, a $198 million bond passed. The District completely modernized its high school and built an additional high school.  Four elementary schools and one middle school were thoroughly modernized and twelve classrooms were added to another middle school. The projects allowed students to learn in high quality 21st century classrooms.
As superintendent, John never had a year when student achievement declined. Dr. Roach was recently selected as the Association of California School Administrator’s (ACSA) Region 18 Superintendent of the Year and is one of six finalists for National Superintendent of the Year.
Kelli Moors, a Board Member at Carlsbad Unified School District, indicated at the time he was selected that “Dr. Roach was selected from an outstanding field of candidates. He has demonstrated the ability to build on the strengths of a supportive school community by providing vision, leadership, and inspiration. Under his leadership, his previous school district, Charter Oak Unified, completed a Master Plan for facilities, was successful in passing a $30 million bond resolution for the modernization of the district’s eight campuses, and maintained high academic standards which led to steady improvement in student achievement."
Dr. Roach earned a Bachelor of Arts in English from Loyola University in 1972, a Master of Arts in English from Loyola Marymount University in 1978 and his Doctorate in Educational Administration from the University of Southern California in 1988.
  EDIT PROFILE
Faculty & Research
Faculty Directories
Faculty A – Z
Faculty by Research Concentrations
Emeriti and Retired
Faculty by Program
Research Centers
Research Concentrations
Recent Publications
All Faculty Publications
Grants Awarded
Faculty Distinctions
Endowed Faculty Chairs & Professorships
PhD Student Directory
Open Faculty Positions
USC Rossier School of Education
Waite Phillips Hall
3470 Trousdale Parkway
Los Angeles, CA 90089
Contact Directory
Employee Emergency Information
SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER
Email Address
Sign Up
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Flickr
LinkedIn
Instagram
Feedback
Content managed by USC Rossier Designed and Developed by USC Web Services