Cookies help us to give you the best experience on our website. You can change your cookie settings if you wish. Otherwise we'll assume you're OK to continue.OKSee our policy
UK
China
Malaysia
Study
Research
Business
Global
About
A-Z
   You are here:
  University of NottinghamBiosciencesPeople
School of Biosciences
School Intranet
       Home
Registration 2016
Study with us
Research
Subject areas
Community links
Open for business
Globalisation
Athena Swan
News
People
Contact us
  Stuart Wilkinson
Postdoctoral Research Fellow, Faculty of Science
Download to vCard
Back to the Staff Directory
Personal Details
Research
Publications
Contact
Room C07 International Center for Brewing science (ICBS)/Brewing Science and Bioenergy
Sutton Bonington Campus
Sutton Bonington
Leicestershire
LE12 5RD
UK
stuart.wilkinson@nottingham.ac.uk
Biography
Having obtained a BSc (Hons) degree in Biology I started my scientific career as an Ecotoxicologist specialising in chronic toxicity of chemicals in aquatic species. A change in career direction then saw a move into the biofuels sector (at the University of Nottingham) working on analytical method development for the BBRSC Bioethanol LACE (Lignocellulosic Conversion to Ethanol) research project. A PhD in Bioenergy and Brewing Science was then completed. The PhD project focussed on the conversion of barley derived spent grains (BSG) to bioethanol. I am now a Postdoctoral Research Fellow in microbial biotechnology and molecular genetics. I am a keen Biologist and a full professional member of the Royal Society of Biology (MRSB) in addition to being a member of the Institute of Brewing and Distilling (IBD) and the American Society of Brewing Chemists (ASBC). I am also a chartered Biologist (CBiol) with the Royal Society of Biology. I also have MSc brewing science and practice module qualifications and numerous scientific publications.
Expertise Summary
Technical expertise: biorefining, experimental design, mass balance and compositional analysis, process chemistry, analytical chemistry (HPLC, GC-MS, APCI, IC), microbiology, fermentation, brewing science, biotechnology, enzymology, molecular techniques such as qRT-PCR and primer design, thermo-chemical and thermo-mechanical pre-treatment optimization, phenotypic analysis/strain screening, statistics, bioactivity assays, scientific writing.
Research Summary
Working in microbial biotechnology and molecular genetics. Specifically looking at screening genetic hybrid yeast strains for industrially beneficial phenotypes and elucidating the underlying genetic… read more
Recent Publications
WILKINSON, STUART, GREETHAM, DARREN and TUCKER, GREGORY A., 2016. Evaluation of different lignocellulosic biomass pretreatments by phenotypic microarray-based metabolic analysis of fermenting yeast Biofuel Research Journal. 3(1), 357-365
KOSTAS E.T, WILKINSON S, WHITE D. A and COOK D, 2016. Optimization of a total acid hydrolysis based protocol for the quantification of total sugars in macroalgae. Journal of Algal Biomass Utilization Journal of Algal Biomass Utilization.. 7 (1): 21- 36.,
WILKINSON S, JAMES S and SMART K, 2016. Maximising high solid loading enzymatic saccharification yield from acid-catalysed hydrothermally-pretreated brewers spent grain Biofuel Research Journal. (In Press.)
RODRIGO S, YOUNG SD, COOK D, WILKINSON S, CLEGG S, BAILEY EH, MATHERS AW and BROADLEY MR, 2015. Selenium in commercial beer and losses in the brewing process from wheat to beer Food Chemistry. 182, 9-13
View all publications
School of Biosciences
University of Nottingham
Sutton Bonington Campus
Nr Loughborough
LE12 5RD, UK

For all enquiries please visit:
www.nottingham.ac.uk/enquire
Find us
Campus map
Room Locations on Campus
Legal information
Copyright
Terms and conditions
Privacy
Posting rules
Accessibility
Freedom of information
Charity gateway
Cookie policy
Get social
Connect with the University of Nottingham through social media and our blogs.
        Campus maps | More contact information | Jobs
 