Library
Students
Staff
MyLO
Contacts
Menu
Leon Barmuta
Associate Professor
Room 215a, Life Sciences Building, Sandy Bay Campus
+61 3 6226 2785 (phone)
+61 3 6226 2645 (fax)
Leon.Barmuta@utas.edu.au
Career
Research
Publications
Funding
Supervision
Associate Professor Leon Barmuta teaches and researches the ecology of fresh and non-marine saline waters (i.e. limnology) in the School of Biological Sciences. He has a strong interest in developing rigorous, quantitiative ecology and collaborates with a range of statisticians and modellers. Leon has also actively articulated this research into policy and practice, collaborating with government (e.g. Forest Practices Authority) and industry (e.g. Hydro Tasmania). Awards include: Australian Society for Limnology Medal (2013), Australian Award for University Teaching (2013), University of Tasmania Citation for Outstanding Contribution to Student Learning (2012), and Australian Water Resources Advisory Council Water Research Achievement Award (1987).
Career summary
Qualifications
Degree Thesis title University Country Date of award
PhD The Community Structure of Macroinvertebrate Benthos in an Australian Upland Stream Monash University Australia 1987
BSc (1st Class Hons) The Decomposition of Eucalyptus obliqua Leaf Packs in Small Stream Ecosystems University of Adelaide Australia 1978
BSc   University of Adelaide Australia 1977
Biography
Before joining the University of Tasmania, Leon was a Postdoctoral Research Fellow at the University of California Santa Barbara (1988-89: effects of acid deposition on freshwater systems) and at Monash University (1990-91: biological responses to near-bed hydraulics), and held research and policy roles in Victorian Government conservation departments and the Museum of Victoria. Prior to these positions, Leon taught and conducted research at the University of Canberra and Murdoch University and was a Scientific Officer for the Department of Water Resources Victoria. While at the University of Tasmania, Leon has played prominent roles in developing biological assessment protocols for the federally-funded National River Health Program, the First National Assessment of River Health, and the ANZECC/ARMCANZ National Water Quality Management Strategy (Guidelines for Fresh and Marine Water Quality). He has also provided advice in various formal capacities to Inland Fisheries Tasmania, Department of Primary Industries Parks Water and Environment Tasmania, and AUSRIVAS Technical Reference Panel.
Research Themes
Leon's research aligns chiefly with the University's research theme of Environment, Resources and Sustainability. His research area (formally called 'limnology') spans all non-marine, inland waters ranging from fresh to naturally saline. Freshwater biodiversity is usually rated as the most threatened globally. Moreover the processes in freshwater ecosystems are essential both to the species living in them and the services that humans expect from them. Tasmania is Australia's freshwater 'paradise' hosting unique species of freshwater fish, invertebrates and plants, and offers an unparalleled variety of aquatic habitats in a compact area. Leon's research ranges from assessing the impacts and improving the practices of catchment activities (e.g. forestry) and water management (e.g. regulation of water levels and river flows) through to innovative, basic research on the drivers of change in populations and communities in fresh waters. Most recently he has been part of a large international collaboration comparing temperate and tropical processes in decomposition and the likely impacts of climate change on the processing of carbon in freshwaters. The most recent research projects are investigating the constraints on ecosystem resilience in lakes (in collaboration with The University of Western Australia, Hydro Tasmania and CSIRO) and rivers (in collaboration with Massey University).
Memberships
Professional practice
Australian Society for Limnology (past president and member of executive)
Ecological Society of Australia
Society for Freshwater Science
Association for the Sciences of Limnology and Oceanography
SIL International Society for Limnology
Administrative expertise
Co-ordinating NCCARF Tasmanian Freshwater node
Managing large, multi-disciplinary projects
Teaching
Ecology, Community Ecology, Population Ecology, Behavioural Ecology, Restoration Ecology, Bioassessment, Experimental Design, Biostatistics, Freshwater Ecology, Ecohydrology, Ecohydraulics, Disturbance Ecology, Invertebrate Ecology, Macroinvertebrates, Limnology, Lakes, Wetlands, Rivers, Streams, Ecosystem Modelling, Statistical Modelling, Statistical Analysis
Teaching expertise
In addition to supervision of graduate students in his research areas, Assoc Prof Barmuta teaches population and community ecology, freshwater ecology, quantitative methods as applied to the full range of ecological topics, evolutionary ecology as applied to life cycles of animals and he is involved with field teaching in several units. He co-ordinated Honours Zoology for over 20 years, continues to supervise students and teaches coursework components in Honours and MAppSci programs in Biological Sciences. He has designed and co-ordinated units in Field Zoology, Freshwater Ecology, and critical thinking in evolutionary science and ecology.
Teaching responsibility
KZA211 – Animal evolution and ecology
KZA355 – Freshwater ecology (co-ordinator)
KSM309 – Quantitative methods in biology
KZA306 – Biology and society (co-ordinator)
KZA706 – Advanced biology and society (co-ordinator)
KZA755 – Advances in freshwater ecology (co-ordinator)
KZA417 – Zoology 4 (Honours, KZA 418, KZA419, KZA420))
KSM304 – Modelling biological data
JFA541 – Quantitative methods
Research Appointments
2010-2013: National Water Quality Management Strategy Working Groups 2 & 5
2010: Forest Practices Authority Tasmania Biodiversity Review
2009-2010: National Water Commission: review of the importance of headwater streams
2009-2013: National Climate Change Adaptation Research Facility (NCCARF) Water Resources and Freshwater Biodiversity, Tasmanian Node Co-ordinator
Research Invitations
National River Health Management Workshop, University of Canberra (2012 - 2015)
Connect with Leon Barmuta
Find out more about Graduate Research
Contact Business and Development and Technology Transfer
























HOME
FACULTIES
SPECIALIST INSTITUTES
DIVISIONS
Hobart


Launceston


Cradle Coast



Sydney



Authorised by Executive Director Research Operations
28 July, 2015
© University of Tasmania, Australia. ABN 30 764 374 782. CRICOS Provider Code 00586B
We acknowledge the palawa and pakana people upon whose lands the University of Tasmania stands