close
The University of Glasgow uses cookies for analytics and advertising. Find out more about our Privacy policy.
Study
Research
Explore
Student life
Alumni
Support us
Connect
Subjects A-Z
Staff A-Z
Academic units A-Z
search
Home
Schools
School of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing
School of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing
Undergraduate Degree Programmes
Postgraduate Taught Programmes
Postgraduate Research Degrees
Research
About us
Our staff
School Management and Committees
Athena Swan
Information for staff
Contact us
Study
Undergraduate Degree Programmes
Postgraduate Taught Programmes
Postgraduate Research Degrees
Our Areas
Undergraduate Medical School
Nursing & Health Care School
Dental School
Forensic Medicine and Science
Double Success in the Complete University Guide 2017
The School of Medicine, Dentistry & Nursing is delighted to announce that both Dentistry and Nursing have been ranked #1 in UK in the 2017 Complete University Guide. Both subjects have achieved 100% for the second consecutive year. Medicine remains in the top 10, with a high overall score of 96.8%.
New Year Honours 2017
Prof Mary Ann Lumsden and Mrs Alison Spurway have been recognised in the 2017 New Year Honours list.
New Year honours for the University of Glasgow
Academics from the University of Glasgow have been recognised in the New Year Honours list.
The Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide 2017
The University of Glasgow has been ranked first in Scotland for Medicine, and first in the UK for Dentistry and Nursing.
School of MD&N Awarded Athena SWAN Bronze Award
The School of Medicine, Dentistry & Nursing has been awarded an Athena SWAN Bronze Award in recognition of its commitment to gender equality.
Double Success in the Complete University Guide 2017
The School of Medicine, Dentistry & Nursing is delighted to announce that both Dentistry and Nursing have been ranked #1 in UK in the 2017 Complete University Guide. Both subjects have achieved 100% for the second consecutive year. Medicine remains in the top 10, with a high overall score of 96.8%.
New Year Honours 2017
Prof Mary Ann Lumsden and Mrs Alison Spurway have been recognised in the 2017 New Year Honours list.
1
2
3
4
5
About us
We are renowned for pioneering teaching methods and superb facilities. We achieve outstanding results for student satisfaction.
Research
We are recognised for our innovative and distinctive research programmes across medicine, dentistry, nursing and healthcare.
School of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing: Safety, Health and Environment Policy
Senate Office Course Evaluation Policy
  The School of Medicine, Dentistry & Nursing is part of the College of Medical, Veterinary and Life Sciences
School of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing
Contact us
    The University of Glasgow is a registered Scottish charity: Registration Number SC004401
SITE LINKS
Accessibility
Maps and travel
Disclaimer
Freedom of information
FOI publication scheme
Privacy and cookies
© UofG
Share
CURRENT STUDENTS
MyGlasgow Students
STAFF
MyGlasgow Staff