Rutgers Home
SAS
Search Rutgers
Support SAS
  Contact Us
IT Help
SAS Webmail
Sakai
Department of Psychology
Home
Department Info
Faculty
Undergraduate
Graduate
History of Psychology
SEL Certificate
You are here: Home Faculty Profiles & Contacts Benjamin Samuels
Benjamin Samuels
Print Email
Title: Assistant Professor
Area: Behavioral and Systems Neuroscience
Phone: (848) 445-8933
Email: ben.samuels@rutgers.edu
Campus: Busch
Building: Psychology 215
Website: http://www.rci.rutgers.edu/~bas291/
Our work aims to define the mechanisms underlying resistance to antidepressant treatment through a variety of approaches. Depression and anxiety are polygenic and highly complex neuropsychiatric disorders that are a major burden on society. Large-scale clinical studies have demonstrated that commonly used medications from several classes of antidepressants only provide relief for a subset of patients. The reasons why some individuals respond to treatment while others do not are poorly understood. To address this question, we study depression and anxiety in mouse models that offer an appropriate framework to assess treatment resistance with face, construct, and predictive validity. For example, we group mice engineered to display features of depression and anxiety by their behavioral response to treatment interventions. Gene expression profiles in selected brain regions that we define as critical for mediating an antidepressant response, such as the dentate gyrus, are then compared between responders and non-responders to treatment through either traditional microarrays or more modern techniques such as RNA sequencing. This line of investigation has yielded candidate signaling pathways that fail to be activated or suppressed in non-responders. The results of these screens form the basis for more advanced molecular, cellular, genetic, and behavioral studies. In addition, our long-term plans are to tailor this approach to define the neural circuitry that mediates response and resistance to various treatments. We hope that these lines of research will help identify the molecular mechanisms and neural circuitry underlying treatment response and resistance, and ultimately will be useful for identifying novel treatments, determining whether patients will respond to treatments, and developing personalized treatment strategies.
FACULTY LISTS
Faculty Profiles & Contacts
Faculty By Area of Study
Faculty Emeriti
Research Laboratories
Connect with Rutgers
Rutgers Home
Rutgers Today
myRutgers
Academic Calendar
Calendar of Events
SAS Events
Explore SAS
SAS Home
Departments & Degree-Granting Programs
Majors & Minors
Research Programs, Centers, & Institutes
Division of Life Sciences
Contact Us
Busch Campus              Psychology Building 848-445-2576
    Livingston Campus Undergraduate Advising at Tillett Hall  848-445-4036
  More Info
SITE MAPHOMEIT HELPWEBSITE FEEDBACKLOGIN
TOP
Copyright © 2017 School of Arts and Sciences. Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.