Yale University
Biological & Biomedical Sciences
About
News & Events
Contact Us
Home
PhD Training
Tracks
BBS Courses
Student Teaching
Special Programs
Physical and Engineering Biology
Cooperative Program with UPR Medical School
China Scholarship Council-Yale World Scholars Program
PhD/MBA Joint Degree Program
NIH Funded Training Programs
Predoctoral Program in Cellular and Molecular Biology
Mission
Career Development Opportunities
Scientific Interactions
Activities
How to Apply
Chemistry/Biology Interface
Medical Research Scholars Program
Yale Cancer Biology Training Program
Research Resources
Core Research Facilities
Research Centers and Institutes
Application
Application Requirements
Financial Support
Application Status
FAQ
Faculty
Biochemistry, Biophysics, and Structural Biology
Computational Biology and Bioinformatics
Immunology
Microbiology
Molecular Cell Biology, Genetics, and Development
Molecular Medicine, Pharmacology, and Physiology
Neuroscience
Plant Molecular Biology
Diversity
Events
Testimonials
Useful Links
Undergraduate and Post Baccalaureate Programs
Fellowship Opportunities
Contact Us
Career Development
Yale Resources
Student Organizations
BBS Internships
Career Outcomes
Yale & New Haven
BBS Resources
share 
 
 tweet 
 
 
 
 
 email
Hongyu Zhao, PhD
Department Chair and Ira V. Hiscock Professor of Biostatistics, Professor of Genetics and Professor of Statistics and Data Science
Biography
Research & Publications
Patient Care
News
Locations
DEPARTMENTS & ORGANIZATIONS
School of Public Health: Biostatistics | YSPH Global Health Concentration
Genetics
Cancer Genetics
Center for Polycystic Kidney Disease Research
Claude D. Pepper Older Americans Independence Center
Faculty Research
Keck: High Performance Computation | NIDA Neuroproteomics Center
Medical Informatics, Yale Center for
Obesity Research Working Group
Yale Cancer Center: Genomics, Genetics, and Epigenetics | SPORE in Lung Cancer
Yale Combined Program in the Biological and Biomedical Sciences (BBS): Computational Biology and Bioinformatics: Computational Approaches to Functional and Integrative Genomics; Theoretical Molecular Biology and Computational Algorithms | Molecular Cell Biology, Genetics and Development: Genetics and Genomics; Human Disease; Proteomics; Quantitative/Systems Biology
BIOGRAPHY
Dr. Hongyu Zhao is the Ira V. Hiscock Professor of Biostatistics and Professor of Statistics and Genetics, Chair of the Biostatistics Department and the Co-Director of Graduate Studies of the Inter-Departmental Program in Computational Biology and Bioinformatics at Yale University. He received his B.S. in probability and statistics from Peking University in 1990 and Ph.D. in statistics from the University of California at Berkeley in 1995. His research interests are the applications of statistical methods in molecular biology, genetics, drug developments, and personalized medicine.
Some of his recent projects include large scale genome wide studies to identify genetic variants underlying complex diseases (schizophrenia, bipolar, autism, and substance sbuse), biological network modeling and analysis, disease biomarker identification, genome annotations, microbiome analysis and systems biology study of herbal medicine. He has published over 430 articles in statistics, human genetics, bioinformatics, and proteomics, and edited two books on human genetics analysis and statistical genomics. He has trained over 70 doctoral and post-doctoral students, many of whom are holding tenured or tenure-track positions at major universities in the states and overseas.
Dr. Zhao is a Co-Editor-Elect of the Journal of the American Statistical Association Theory and Methods, and serves on the editorial boards of several leading statistical and genetics journals. He was the recipient of the Mortimer Spiegelman Award for a top statistician in health statistics under the age of 40 awarded by the American Public Health Association. His research has also been recognized by the Evelyn Fix Memorial Medal and Citation by UC Berkeley, a Basil O'Connor Starter Scholar Award by the March of Dimes Foundation, election to the fellowship of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American Statistical Association and the Institute of Mathematical Statistics.
EDUCATION & TRAINING
PhD University of California at Berkeley (1995)
BS Peking University (1990)
HONORS & RECOGNITION
Ira V. Hiscock Professor
Yale University (2011)
Fellow
American Association for the Advancement of Science (2011)
Mortimer Spiegelman Award
American Public Health Association (2008)
Fellow
Institute of Mathematical Statistics (2007)
Fellow
American Statistical Association (2006)
Elected Member
International Statistical Institute (2006)
Ira V. Hiscock Associate Professor
Yale University (2001)
Basil O'Connor Starter Scholar Award
March of Dimes Foundation (1999)
Evelyn Fix Memorial Medal and Citation
University of California at Berkeley (1995)
Edit this profile
CONTACT INFO
Hongyu Zhao, PhD
Office203.785.3613
Fax203.785.6912
Emailhongyu.zhao@yale.edu
Office Location
Laboratory of Epidemiology and Public Health
60 College Street, Ste 201
New Haven, CT 06510
View on map...
Mailing Address
PO Box 208034
60 College Street
New Haven, CT 06520-8034
Hongyu Zhao's Lab
BBS Program
Yale University
New Haven CT
06520
203.785.3734
bbs@yale.edu
CONTACT US
MAPS & DIRECTIONS
FIND A PHYSICIAN
CALENDAR
YALE PHONEBOOK
INTRANET
SITE EDITOR
TERMS & PRIVACY POLICIES
YALE UNIVERSITY
© 2017 Yale School of Medicine. Updated 12/8/2015