Search
Fisheries and Aquatic Sciences Forests, Natural Resources, Conservation Geomatics, Surveying, Mapping
Home » People » Faculty » Gezan, Salvador
363 Newins-Ziegler Hall
PO Box 110410,
Gainesville, FL 32611-0410
sgezan@ufl.edu
(352) 846.0133
Publications
Salvador A. Gezan joined the School in 2011 to lead the quantitative genetic analyses for the CFGRP and FBRC breeding programs. He will also works on Forest Modelling and Forest Biometrics in general. He obtained a co-Ph.D. in Statistics and Forestry with emphasis on Quantitative Genetics from the University of Florida. Prior to joining the School, he was a Statistical and Genetics consultant at Rothamsted Research and VSN International, both at United Kingdom. His current research includes topics in mixed models methodology, construction of forest growth and yield models for natural forest and plantations, and optimal design and analysis of plant and genetic experiments.
Research:
Mixed Linear Models, Quantitative Genetics, Design of Experiments, Sampling, Growth and Yield Modelling, Plant Breeding, Forest and Agricultural Statistics.
“My research focuses on the development/understanding of linear mixed models, particularly in applications to genetics and breeding. Some of my current research projects involve the study of multi-trait analysis of clonal breeding pine trials, and un-replicated experiments and its implications in genetic gain and selection. In the near future, some of the relevant topics that I will be studying include developing applications of mixed model to genetics, such as: generation and analysis of un-replicated trials, multiple site spatial analysis, rankings based in single and two-stage analysis of multiple experiments, incorporation of molecular markers into selection and breeding value estimation, including genomic selection, and combine different sources of information in operational rankings.
My other main research area is associated with the construction of growth and yield models for forest species. Some of my current issues of interest include the use of better competition indexes into forest models, particularly for individual distance independent individual growth models. In addition, I will be developing applications with the use of linear (and non-linear) mixed models for different types of responses (e.g. tree diameter), considering the multi-stratum structure of the data and the correlation that exists among observations (individuals, plots, experimental units, etc.).”
Degrees:
PhD, University of Florida, 2005
BS, Universidad de Chile, Chile, 1996
Courses Taught
STA 6166 Statistical Methods in Research I
FOR 3430C Forest Mensuration
FOR 6934 Forest Mensuration
STA 6167 Statistical Methods in Research II
PCB 6555 Introduction to Quantitative Genetics
<<   All SFRC Faculty
  Adams, Alison
  Adams, Damian
  Andreu, Michael
  Asche, Frank
  Bartels, Wendy-Lin
  Bohlman, Stephanie
  Broadbent, Eben
  Buschbacher, Robert
  Carter, Douglas
  Cohen, Matthew
  Crandall, Raelene
  Cropper, Wendell
  Dain, Jonathan
  Davis, John
  Gezan, Salvador
  Hulcr, Jiri
  Iannone, Basil
  Jokela, Eric
  Kainer, Karen
  Kirst, Matias
  Martin, Timothy
  Minogue, Pat
  Monroe, Martha
  Nair, PK
  Peter, Gary
  Qiu,Jiangxiao
  Sharma, Ajay
  Smith, Jason
  Stein, Taylor
  Susaeta, Andres
  Valle, Denis
  Vogel, Jason
myUFL
Student Webmail
Outlook Web Access
University Registrar
UF Phonebook & Map
Helpdesk
Disability Services
Library Access
One UF
e-Learning
(352) 846.0850 phone
(352) 392.1707 fax
sfrc@ifas.ufl.edu
136 Newins-Ziegler Hall
Gainesville, Florida 32611
PO Box 110410
Physical Address

Contact Webmaster
Current Students
Faculty & Staff
Tech Support & Building Maintenance
New Employees
Site updated June 21, 2017 ; Page updated January 9, 2013
Site updated June 21, 2017 ; Page updated January 9, 2013