COLLEGE OF PROFESSIONAL STUDIES & FINE ARTS  I   SCHOOL MAP FOR DIRECTIONS & PARKING  I   OFFICE PHONE: 619.594.6031

       About
About
Majors & Degrees
People
Admission
Performing Groups
Tickets & Calendar
Ways To Give
PEOPLE Quick Links
Administration and Staff
Alumni
Ensembles in Residence
Faculty
Students
Student Handbooks
Student Internships
Job Opportunities
FACULTY Quick Links
Faculty Calendar
Events Calendar
Concert Program Templates
Faculty Resources



Bob Boss
Studio Faculty, Guitar
bobboss@cox.net

       
Born in Killeen, Texas, Bob was raised in California and picked up electric guitar at age 11. He began performing at school dances and parties in junior high.  He became increasingly interested in improvisation and studied with Jerry Hahn in 1971. He continued to play in clubs and concerts while a student at CSU Chico and completed a Masters in Humanities, choosing music as a full-time career.
Bob moved to Berkeley, California in 1977 and worked throughout the Bay Area for several years, performing with Vince Wallace, Baomi, Smiley Winters and many others. He traveled to New Mexico to work with Sherman Rubin backing Eddie Harris, Richie Cole and Red Rodney. He continued his studies with Bobby Addison and recorded three albums as a sideman. He could also be found working clubs, casuals, concerts, musical theater, and more.
  Since moving to Oceanside in 1983, Bob has worked all over San Diego with many great musicians, including “Doc” James Williams, Ray Crawford, Joe Marillo, Mike Wofford, A.J. Croce and Jimmy and Jeannie Cheatham. He also presented workshops and clinic/concerts at the Idyllwild School of Music and the Arts with Marshall Hawkins and Seahawk Music featuring guest artists such as Daniel Jackson and Harry Pickens. He’s performed with Nick Brignola, Rickey Woodard and Jeff Clayton.

He has served on several music faculties including UCSD and Palomar College. Bob is a regular contributor to Jazz Link Magazine and has recorded with A.J. Croce for Private Music and with Seahawk for Park Hill.
  Bob toured extensively in the United States performing at many festivals (including Wolf Trap, Pine Knob, Idyllwild, Winter Park, Ravinia and Peter Britt), clubs and schools. He has also traveled to Europe, Canada and Mexico to play concerts large and small. He appeared on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno, CBS This Morning, CNN, Entertainment Tonight, KUSI, NBC and on national TV in France, Holland and Belgium. He currently freelances with several bands in San Diego including Seahawk, Dave Pike, Marguerita Page and Holly Hofmann. He can be heard performing in San Diego, Palm Springs and Los Angeles.
News / Announcements
Summer of Innovation
Read about Dr. Warren's exhibition at Museum of Making Music

In Memoriam: Merle E. Hogg, Ph.D. - 1922-2017
Learn more about Professor Hogg...

SDSU Orchestra Receives a “BRAVO” in San Diego Story
Read the article in San Diego Story...

SDSU musicians synthesize in a Symphony by the Sea
Read the Daily Aztec article.


SMD Links




School of Music & Dance
5500 Campanile Drive, San Diego, CA 92182-7902
Phone: 619.594.6031 Fax: 619.594.1692

Accessibility | Download Adobe Reader for PDF files | Download Word Viewer for Word documents
The statements found on this page/site are for informational purposes only.
While every effort is made to ensure that this information is up-to-date and accurate, official information can be found in the university publications.

© 2013–2016 School of Music and Dance