University of Pittsburgh
PITT HOME FIND PEOPLE
Home About Centers of Excellence People Training Research For Patients Contact Us Media
David S. Zorub, MS, MD
Clinical Professor
Director, Neuro Intensive Care, UPMC Shadyside
HOME › PEOPLE ›
CONTACT
412-623-2972
zorubds@upmc.edu
Biography
David S. Zorub, MD, joined the faculty of the University of Pittsburgh Department of Neurological Surgery in May of 2014. Dr. Zorub was born in Lebanon and immigrated to the United States at the age of nine. He grew up in Hot Springs, Ark., where he received his primary education.
Dr. Zorub received his undergraduate degree from Tulane University College of Arts and Sciences, graduating summa cum laude with a major in history. His subsequent education was at Tulane University School of Medicine where he received his medical degree cum laude and a masters of science in neuroanatomy. Post-graduate education was at Duke University Medical Center where he completed his internship and residency in neurologic surgery. While at Duke he did a special postdoctoral fellowship for the Veteran’s Administration and did research at the Institute of Physiology in Pisa, Italy.
Upon completion of training at Duke University Medical Center, Dr. Zorub came to the University of Pittsburgh and Presbyterian University Hospital where he served as director of residency education and director of stereotactic surgery. He subsequently relocated to Shadyside Hospital and Foundation in 1979 and has served as director of neurosurgery, and subsequently as chief of neurosurgery from January 1979 to September 2014.
Dr. Zorub also functioned as vice president of clinical affairs for Shadyside Hospital for seven years and his responsibilities included the clinical oversight of the merger agreement with UPMC Presbyterian for the Shadyside Board of Trustees as well as serving as vice president overseeing medical staff services, infection control, informatics and process improvement and quality management. He has also been active in organized medicine, having served as president of the Allegheny County Medical Society, chair of its board of trustees, and chair of the ACMS Foundation Board of Trustees.
Dr. Zorub continues to be very active clinically and is currently director of neuro intensive care at UPMC Shadyside. He has served in numerous positions at the hospital, participating in essentially all facets of the institution. His areas of expertise include brain tumors, pituitary microsurgery, cranial nerve disorders like trigeminal neuralgia, hemifacial spasm, treatment for benign and malignant disease and spine surgery. He also specializes in peripheral nerve disorders having trained under Barnes Woodhall, MD.
Specialized Areas of Interest
Brain tumors; pituitary microsurgery; cranial nerve disorders; hemifacial spasm; spine surgery; peripheral nerve surgery; pain management.
Board Certifications
American Board of Neurological Surgery
Hospital Privileges
Jefferson Regional Medical Center
UPMC Cancer Center
UPMC East
UPMC Presbyterian
UPMC Shadyside
Professional Organization Membership
American Association of Neurological Surgeons
American Association for Stereotactic Surgery
American Medical Association
Congress of Neurological Surgeons
Pennsylvania Medical Society
Pennsylvania Neurosurgical Society
Education & Training
MS, Anatomy, Tulane University, 1970
MD, Tulane University, 1970
Residency, Duke University, 1976
Fellowship, University of Pisa, 1974
Fellowship, Duke University, 1974
People
Faculty
Residents
UPMC Presbyterian, Suite B-400
200 Lothrop Street
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
412-647-3685
F:412-647-0989
neuroinfo@upmc.edu
Online CME
Gamma Knife
EEA
CyberKnife
TrueBeam
Making a Gift
Residency
Clinical Trials
Newsletter
Annual Report
Gamma Knife Course
Endonasal Course
Social Media
  Copyright 2017 | Site by UMC Web team