The website of the UG uses functional and anonymous analytics cookies. Do you also accept other cookies such as tracking cookies? More information
Accept all cookiesDeny additional cookies
Skip to Content
Skip to Navigation
University of Groningen
Menu and search
About usHow to find usdr. T.M. Nawar
dr. T.M. Nawar
Assistant Professor
Faculty of Philosophy
Contact:
+31 50 36 36170
E-mail:
t.nawar@rug.nl
Homepage
Twitter Profile
Field/Discipline
Philosophy
Expertise
Areas of Interest: Ancient and Medieval Philosophy; Epistemology; Metaphysics

Before joining the faculty of philosophy here in Groningen (in 2015) I was a research fellow in philosophy at the University of Oxford and before that I completed my PhD at the University of Cambridge.

My historical research is broad both chronologically and thematically, but focuses on ancient and medieval philosophy. To date, I have published on Plato, Aristotle, the Stoics, and Augustine.

My systematic interests are focused on (analytic) metaphysics and epistemology. I am especially interested in questions at the intersections of these areas and value theory and the philosophy of action.

I am interested in supervising students working in these areas. Please contact me if you are a prospective student and have any queries.

On my personal site you can find more materials related to my teaching and research.


Some recent publications:

‘Aristotelian Finitism’,  Synthese (2015) [PDF proof]

‘Augustine on the Varieties of Understanding and Why There is No Learning from Words’, Oxford Studies in Medieval Philosophy (2015) [PDF proof]

‘The Stoic Account of Apprehension’, Philosophers’ Imprint (2014) [open access]

‘Knowledge and True Belief at Theaetetus 201a-c’, British Journal for the History of Philosophy (2013)  [PDF offprint]  (commended in the 2013 BSHP Essay Prize Competition)


Projects:

From 2017, I will be working on a NWO Veni project focusing on relativism about truth and morality in ancient philosophy.
Last modified: 13 June 2017 5.31 p.m.
Contact information
Faculty of Philosophy
History of Philosophy
Oude Boteringestraat 52
9712 GL Groningen
The Netherlands
Office
Oude Boteringestraat 52
9712 GL  Groningen
Room: 0102 (1131)
Links
Personal site (includes research and teaching materials)
Philpapers profile
Academia.edu page
Follow us on
facebook
twitter
linkedin
rss
instagram
youtube
Prospective students
Open days and introduction
Bachelor's degree programmes
Master's degree programmes
Teacher Education
Scholierenacademie (Dutch)
Summer Schools
Honours College
PhD Programmes
Life-long learning
Discover Groningen
Ins and Outs: questions and answers
The University in your language
Society/Business
University of Groningen Library
Find an expert
Language Centre
Research & Valorisation
Centre for Information Technology
Convention and symposia overview
University Hotel
University Museum
University Shop
Career Services
Studium Generale
Sustainable university
Science Shop
Alumni
Alumni Activities
Study and Career
Alumni Abroad
Alumni Magazine Broerstraat 5
About us
How to find us
Job opportunities
Faculty of Economics and Business
Faculty of Behavioural and Social Sciences
Faculty of Theology and Religious Studies
Faculty of Arts
Faculty of Medical Sciences
Faculty of Law
Faculty of Spatial Sciences
Faculty of Philosophy
Faculty of Science and Engineering
University College Groningen
University of Groningen/Campus Fryslân
KVI-CART
Office of the University
University Services Department
Communication office
Calendar
Disclaimer — Privacy & Cookies — Copyright