Home
About
Departments
ACCESS
Events
Research
Resources
Give a Gift
Contact
College of Social Sciences Profile
Marc Moody
UH Email: mmoody@hawaii.edu
Personal Website
College of Social Sciences Affiliations
School of Communications (COM,JOUR)
Faculty - Associate Professor
Office: Crawford 313
Phone: 956-5590
Fax: 956-5396
History
Education:
MFA Ohio University School of Film, MA Ohio University School of Media Arts, BA University of Arkansas, Fayetteville
Background:
Graduating from the University of Arkansas at Fayetteville, Marc obtained his
MFA in Film at Ohio University School of Film and his MA in Screenwriting at
Ohio University's School of Media Arts.

Marc is an award winning filmmaker and screenwriter.

In 2011 he was a Semi Finalist at the Academy of Motion
Picture Arts and Sciences (The Oscars) Nicholl Fellowships in Screenwriting
which his screenplay "Land of Lincoln" placed in the top 30 selected from 6,700
national and international submissions.

His screenplay "Victor, The Wild Child of Aveyron" placed in the top 431
of 6730 submissions in 2011, as well.

In 2010, Marc again was a Semi-Finalist at the Academy of Motion
Picture Arts and Sciences Nicholl Fellowships in Screenwriting for
his screenplay "Land of Lincoln" being one of 114 selected out of 6,304
national and international submissions.

He was winner of the Lee Rich/Warner Bros. International Screenwriting
Competition, first place winner at the Institute for Motion Picture
Development International Screenwriting Contest.

He has studied screenwriting under Lew Hunter, Professor Emeritus and Director of Screenwriting (UCLA),
the late William Miller at Ohio University and author James Leo Herlihy.

In 2005, he was the recipient of the Phred Love - Best Filmmaker in Hawaii
award for "Almost Normal" which he wrote and directed, and is distributed by
Seventh Art Releasing and airs on MTV's Logo Channel.

Currently, Marc is an Associate Professor in Film and Screenwriting at the
University of Hawaii at Manoa. His most recent feature-length screenplays
include "Land of Lincoln" and "Auditioning David".

He currently is in pre-production for specific scene shots for his script "Land of
Lincoln" and is also currently in pre-production, working on the feature
screenplay "Almost Normal 2".
Interests
Personal:
Beach Activities, The Civil War
Instruction
Teaching:
Fall Semester 2011

Com433 Screenwriting
Com310 Media Arts
Advising:
Office Hours
Wednesdays
10A to Noon and 1P to 3P
Publication
ALMOST NORMAL (2006): Film Distribution

7th Art Releasing
Wolfe Releasing
  Download Publication
  Type: Film Distribution
Awards & Honors
Semi Finalist (2010): Academy of Motion Pictures Arts & Sciences Nicholl Fellowship Screenwriting Fellowship Contest
Breckenridge Film Festival / Best GLBT Film "Almost Normal" (2006)
Breckenridge Film Festival / Best Ensemble Acting "Almost Normal" (2006)
Distinguished Published Faculty / University of Hawaii at Manoa (2006)
Phred Love Best Filmmaker Award (2005)
Hollis Perry Fine Arts Award "Victor, The Wild Child of Averyon" (1999)
Apple Expose 1st Place "Out There" (1997)