Students | Staff | LearnJCU | Library | Contacts
jcu.me | What's new? | Help | Login
Research Portfolio
Prof Robyn McDermott ~ Professorial Research Fellow
College of Public Health, Medical & Vet Sciences
Centre for Chronic Disease Prevention Centre for Nursing and Midwifery Research
Researchers
Centres Institutes Colleges Search About this site Feedback
JCU > Research Portfolio > Prof Robyn McDermott
AboutPublicationsCurrent FundingSupervisionCollaboration
    Robyn McDermott is Professor of Public Health Medicine at the Centre for Chronic Disease Prevention James Cook University, Senior Clinical Research Fellow (Queensland),  NHMRC Practitioner Fellow and Professor of Public Health in the School of Population Health (UniSA) and the Sansom Institute for Health Research (South Australia).
Robyn previously served as Professor of Public Health Medicine at JCU in Cairns from 2002-4 and prior to that, as Medical Epidemiologist in the Cairns Tropical Public Health Unit from 1995. She has been a Research Fellow at the Menzies School of Health Research in the NT and spent many years working as a clinician and health services manager in rural and remote Australia, and in refugee health in South East Asia in the 1980’s and 90’s.
From 2000 to 2004 she served as Vice President, then President of the Australasian Faculty of Public Health Medicine and numerous advisory committees to state and commonwealth governments. Robyn has worked as a consultant for WHO, AusAID, the World Bank and State and Commonwealth governments and others, in health services and Public Health.  Her research interests are in chronic disease epidemiology, clinical quality improvement and disease prevention. She has chaired NHMRC Grant Review Panels for Projects, Fellowships and Capacity Building Grants and has had continuous NHMRC funding as lead investigator since 1998, totalling more than $12 million.
Robyn has co-ordinated and taught Masters level courses in Epidemiology and Health Economics while in the Northern Territory, and a new masters course in chronic disease and public health at James Cook University, as well as contributing to undergraduate teaching on the new JCU Medical Course.
Qualifications: MBBS University of Sydney 1978, FAFPHM The Royal Australasian College of Physicians 1990,MPH Harvard University 1993, PhD University of Sydney 2002
Interests
Research
Robyn's research interests include the epidemiology of chronic disease and health transition, and how primary health care can improve outcomes in resource-poor settings. Her work on improving diabetes care systems in remote far north Queensland resulted in major changes to policy and practice, and was recognised by the National Health and Medical Research Council (NHMRC) as one of the “best 10” projects in 2006 More recently her focus has been the effective translation of research evidence into clinical and public health practice, with attention to systems issues including funding models, policy environment, information systems, workforce development and quality improvement in primary care settings Although coming late to the formal research world, she has earned more than $7 million in NHMRC research grant funding as lead investigator and more than $8million as co-investigator.
Research Disciplines
Public Health and Health Services (1117)
Socio-Economic Objectives
Indigenous Health (9203) Clinical Health (9201) Public Health (9204)

Connect with me
Email
robyn.mcdermott@jcu.edu.au
Phone
+61 7 423 21575
Location
Cairns
Advisory Accreditation
Advisor Mentor
Contact
vCard
Join my research team
My research areas
Indigenous Studies Aboriginal Studies Public Health Aboriginal & Torres Strait Islander Peoples Diabetes Indigenous Australians Primary Health Care Alcohol Hospitalisation Type 2 Diabetes Torres Strait Islander Smoking Chronic Disease Albuminuria Indigenous Health
Similar to me
Prof Komla Tsey
College of Arts, Society & Education
Ms Bronwyn Davis
College of Healthcare Sciences
A/Prof Usman Malabu
College of Medicine & Dentistry
Mr Sean Taylor
College of Public Health, Medical & Vet Sciences
Dr Sandra Campbell
College of Public Health, Medical & Vet Sciences
Contacts
Call 1800-246-446
Find a person or department
Emergencies
On campus call 0000, then 15555
About This Site
Lovingly crafted by hand in Pyramid and Python at James Cook University by the eResearch Centre and Research Services.
Icons from Iconic pack.
  Published Fri, 1 Feb 2013 04:00  Copyright © 1995 to 2013, James Cook University. All rights reserved. ABN 46253211955
Member of Innovative Research Universities |  Feedback |  Terms of use |  Privacy statement |  CRICOS Provider Code:00117J