Skip to main content
Search for:
Geisel School of Medicine
Dartmouth
Departments & Centers
Find People
Giving
Quick Links
About
Education
Research
Faculty
News
Alumni & Friends
Home faculty facultydb view
Edit Entry
James N. Weinstein, MS, DO
Title(s):
Professor of Orthopaedics
Professor of The Dartmouth Institute
Professor of Community and Family Medicine
Peggy Y. Thomson Professor for the Evaluative Clinical Sciences
CEO and President, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Health
Department(s):
Orthopaedics
The Dartmouth Institute
Community and Family Medicine
Education:
BS 1972
DO 1977, Chicago College of Osteopathic Medicine
MSc 1995, The Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice
Programs:
Center for Shared Decision Making
SYNERGY
The Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice
Websites:
http://www.dartmouth-hitchcock.org/about_dh/ceo.html
http://tdi.dartmouth.edu/
http://mhcds.dartmouth.edu/
http://tdc.dartmouth.edu
http://www.dhmc.org
http://www.dartmouth-hitchcock.org/spine.html
http://www.dartmouth-hitchcock.org/medical-information/decision_making_help.html
http://www.dartmouth.edu/sport-trial
http://mcrc.hitchcock.org
https://www.highvaluehealthcare.org/


Contact Information:
Office of the CEO and President
Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center
One Medical Center Dr.
Lebanon NH 03756
Phone: 603-653-3580
Fax: 603-650-7440
Email: James.Weinstein@dartmouth.edu

Assistant: Faith Johnston
Asst. Phone: 603-653-3580
Asst. Email: faith.e.johnston@hitchcock.org
Professional Interests:
Dr. James N. Weinstein is Chief Executive Officer and President of Dartmouth-Hitchcock. The $2 billion system includes New Hampshire's only academic medical center and a network of affiliated hospitals and clinics across Vermont and New Hampshire, serving a patient population of 1.9 million. Under his leadership, Dartmouth-Hitchcock is working to create a "sustainable health system" for the patients and communities we serve, for generations to come. He has built partnerships with disparate providers throughout northern New England, and the United States, to deliver optimum care at lowest cost to patients in the region.

Immediately prior to becoming CEO in 2011, Dr. Weinstein served as President of Dartmouth-Hitchcock Clinic and was Director of The Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice (TDI), home of the Dartmouth Atlas of Health Care, which for decades has documented the ongoing variations in health care delivery across the United States. His dual positions as Clinic President and TDI Director allowed him to build critical linkages between the groundbreaking health services research of TDI and the clinical care at Dartmouth-Hitchcock, with a focus on better understanding and meeting the population health needs of the region Dartmouth-Hitchcock serves.

Dr. Weinstein is the Executive Director and a founding member, along with Mayo Clinic, Intermountain Healthcare, TDI, and Denver Health, of the national High Value Healthcare Collaborative (HVHC), a partnership of more than a dozen health systems that have taken on the challenge of improving the quality of care while lowering costs. The Collaborative allows for unprecedented data sharing, including electronic medical record data from each system, and the collection of patient reported measures.

As a researcher and internationally renowned spine surgeon, Dr. Weinstein has received more than $70 million in federal funding and has published more than 325 peer-reviewed articles. He is a leader in advancing "informed choice" to ensure patients receive evidence-based, safe, effective, efficient, and appropriate care. In 1999, he established the first-in-the-world Center for Shared Decision-Making at Dartmouth-Hitchcock. He also founded the multidisciplinary Spine Center at Dartmouth-Hitchcock, which has become an international model for patient-centered healthcare delivery and incorporates patient-reported outcomes in clinical practice, adding a new dimension to the process and clinical measurements traditionally used to judge the efficacy and value of care.

Dr. Weinstein was recently appointed by President Barack Obama to the Special Medical Advisory Group to provide advice to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the Under Secretary for Health on matters relating to the care and treatment of veterans. He is frequently consulted by members of Congress and the Administration, as well as government leaders in New Hampshire and Vermont, on health policy and reform.

Dr. Weinstein holds the Peggy Y. Thomson Chair in the Evaluative Clinical Sciences at the Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth. He is a member of the National Academy of Sciences Institute of Medicine and serves on the organization’s Board for Population Health and Public Health Practice. He chair sits Committee on Community Based Solutions to Promote Health Equity in the U.S.
Grant Information:
NIH-NIAMS The Spine Patient Outcomes Research Trial (SPORT) 2-U01-AR45444-10
NIH-NIAMS Multidisciplinary Clinical Research Center in Musculoskeletal Diseases P60-AR048094-05
NRSA T32 Training Grant for Residency program support
Selected Publications:
  Birkmeyer NJO, Weinstein JN, Tosteson ANA, Tosteson TD, Skinner JS, Lurie JDN, Deyo R, Wennberg JE Design of the Spine Patient Outcomes Research Trial (SPORT) Spine 27(12):1361-1372, 2002. (view details on MedLine)
Weinstein JN, Principal Investigator. The Dartmouth Atlas of Musculoskeletal Health Care. Specialty Series Editor: Birkmeyer J; Dartmouth Atlas Editors: Wennberg JE, Cooper, M, Center for the Evaluative Sciences, Dartmouth Medical School, 1999.
Deyo RA, Cherkin DC, Weinstein JN, Howe JF, Ciol MA, Mulley AD. Involving Patients in Clinical Decisions: Impact of an Interactive Video Program on Use of Back Surgery. Medical Care 38(9):959-969, 2000.
Weinstein JN, Bronner KK, Morgan TS, Wennberg JE Trends and Geographic Variations in Major Surgery for Degeneratve Diseases of the Hip, Knee, and Spine: Is there a roadmap for change? Health Affairs var 81, 2004 Web Exclusive (view details on MedLine)
Skinner JS, Weinstein JN, Sporer SM, Wennberg JE Racial, Ethnic, and Geographic Disparities in Rates of Knee Arthroplasty among Medicare Patients. NEJM 349(14):1350-9, 2003 (view details on MedLine)
Weinstein, J. N., T. D. Tosteson, J. D. Lurie, A. N. Tosteson, B. Hanscom, J. S. Skinner, W. A. Abdu, A. S. Hilibrand, S. D. Boden, and R. A. Deyo. Surgical vs nonoperative treatment for lumbar disk herniation: the Spine Patient Outcomes Research Trial (SPORT): a randomized trial. JAMA 296, no. 20 (2006): 2441-50. (view details on MedLine)
Weinstein, J. N., J. D. Lurie, T. D. Tosteson, J. S. Skinner, B. Hanscom, A. N. Tosteson, H. Herkowitz, J. Fischgrund, F. P. Cammisa, T. Albert, and R. A. Deyo Surgical Vs Nonoperative Treatment for Lumbar Disk Herniation: The Spine Patient Outcomes Research Trial (Sport) Observational Cohort. JAMA 296, no. 20 (2006): 2451-9 (view details on MedLine)
Weinstein, J. N., J. D. Lurie, T. D. Tosteson, B. Hanscom, A. N. Tosteson, E. A. Blood, N. J. Birkmeyer, A. S. Hilibrand, H. Herkowitz, F. P. Cammisa, T. J. Albert, S. E. Emery, L. G. Lenke, W. A. Abdu, M. Longley, T. J. Errico, and S. S. Hu Surgical Versus Nonsurgical Treatment for Lumbar Degenerative Spondylolisthesis. N Engl J Med 356, no. 22 (2007): 2257-70 (view details on MedLine)
Weinstein, J. N., T. D. Tosteson, J. D. Lurie, A. N. Tosteson, E. Blood, B. Hanscom, H. Herkowitz, F. Cammisa, T. Albert, S. D. Boden, A. Hilibrand, H. Goldberg, S. Berven, and H. An Surgical Versus Nonsurgical Therapy for Lumbar Spinal Stenosis. N Engl J Med 358, no. 8 (2008): 794-810 (view details on MedLine)
Latest News
Dartmouth Health Economist Carrie Colla Named 2017-2018 RWJF Health Policy Fellow

June 12, 2017

Geisel Joins Coast-to-Coast Collaboration of Medical Schools to Transform Medical Education

June 8, 2017

Geisel Inducts New Members into Academy of Master Educators

June 7, 2017

Upcoming Events
Orthopaedic Grand Rounds
June 23, 2017
MSB Faculty Meeting - Vail 513
June 23, 2017
Graduate Program in Biochemistry - Ph.D. Thesis Presentation
June 29, 2017
Biochemistry & Cell Biology Department Seminar, James M. Slauch, Ph.D., University of Illinois
June 29, 2017
MSB Faculty Meeting - DHMC Rubin 852
July 14, 2017

1 Rope Ferry Road
Hanover, NH 03755-1404

Contact Us
Media Contacts
Quick Links
Geisel School of Medicine
Dartmouth College
Find People
Admissions
Biomedical Libraries
Geisel Computing
Affiliated Hospitals
Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center
White River Junction VA Medical Center
California Pacific Medical Center
Indian Health Service Medical Centers
Connect With Us
Copyright © 2017 Trustees of Dartmouth College
Higher Education Act Information
Dartmouth Compliance and Ethics Hotline
This page may link to PDF files. Use this link to download Adobe Reader if needed.