LibraryCurrent studentsStaff Intranet
The University of Sydney
Sydney Medical School
Refine search
Sydney Medical School
Sydney Medical School
University of Sydney
University of Sydney
All University websites
Library catalogue
Research opportunities
Staff directory
Courses
Researcher
Sydney Medical School
University Home
Contacts
Quick links:
Quick Links
University phonebook
Our Handbook
SMP Website
Courses we offer
-------------------
Staff intranet
Email exchange
Study
Research
Schools, disciplines and centres
About us
Our people
Partners
You are here: Home / Our people / Our people / Academic staff list / Associate Professor Kirsty Foster 
OUR PEOPLE
Academic staff
Find a researcher
SEARCH PAGE
ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR KIRSTY FOSTER
BSc, MBChB, DRCOG, MEd, PhD, FRCGP
Associate Dean (International) and Head, Office of Global Health, Sydney Medical School
Associate Professor in Medical Education & Sub-Dean (Education), Northern Clinical School
Member of China Studies Centre
Telephone +61 2 9926 4658
Fax +61 2 9438 2170
Email kirsty.foster@sydney.edu.au
Map
Biographical details
Associate Professor Kirsty Foster is a general practitioner (trained in Edinburgh, UK) who specialises in medical education and global health. Following a two-decade career as a GP, including as Managing Partner of a large academic general practice in Edinburgh, she migrated to Australia and commenced a career in medical education. As Head of the Office of Global Health at Sydney Medical School, she provides academic leadership and helps drive the internationalisation of the school’s health research, learning and teaching programs. Associate Professor Foster has led major international initiatives in medical education, including a World Bank-funded project to improve perinatal care in Macedonia. She was Team Leader of an AusAid-funded project in remote Vietnam, to improve maternal and child health and health literacy through education, and headed a University of Sydney delegation to build clinical teaching capacity at two medical schools in Ghana. Her passion for developing the next generation of medical professionals and for improving health care in economically-deprived countries is evident as she notes, “each year, I feel privileged to have contributed to the education of our medical graduates. It is a special privilege also as part of our international efforts, to meet the many dedicated professionals from under-resourced countries and to work together to help improve health care in these countries”. Associate Professor Foster co-leads the Health Cluster of the Australia Indonesia Centre. She continues to champion education as member of the Kolling Institute Executive Committee and chair of the Education Sub Committee of Northern Sydney Local Health District Board. Additionally, she oversees clinical education at Northern Clinical School. She was the recipient of the 2012 Australian National Teaching Award for Outstanding Contribution to Student Learning.
Back to Top
Research interests
Associate Professor Foster’s research interests include health literacy and quality clinical education in low-income countries, in particular interactive clinical education. She also is interested in studying development of professionalism in physicians, and has a strong interest in global health.
As one of two Australian co-leaders of the Australia Indonesia Centre Health Cluster, she is collaborating with the Indonesian co-leads in developing the Cluster Investment Plan for a three-year research program with the overall aim of Primary Prevention of Non-Communicable Disease through a Life Course Approach.
Back to Top
Current research students
Project title Research student
Patient-centred communication and health literacy in Dien Bien Province, Vietnam. Shannon MCKINN
Digital technology in anatomical pathology and impacts in medical education John TURCHINI
Back to Top
Themes
Reproductive, Maternal and Child Health; Lifespan
Back to Top
Keywords
Professionalism; Medical education; Women's health; Global health; Primary health care
Back to Top
International links
China
(Hainan Municipal Hospital) Collaboration to contribute to specialist training for general practitioners.
East Timor
(National Hospital Guido Valadares, Dili Institute of Health Sciences) Collaboration in development of critical care workshop for medical and nursing staff
Ghana
(University of the Cape Coast and University of Development Studies) Collaboration to support development of clinical teaching capacity and development of clinical reasoning in senior medical students. Medical education research collaboration.
Indonesia
(Australia Indonesia Centre) Co-lead Health Cluster Partenrs, University of Melbourne, Universitas Indonesia, Universitas Airlangga
Vietnam
(Dien Bien Phu Provincial Hospital Hanoi Medical University and Vietnamese Women's Union) Partners in a AUS AID Public Sector Linkage Program Grant funded Maternal and Child Health initiative looking at improving primary care and health literacy in Dien Bien district.
Vietnam
(Hanoi Medical University, University of Mediciane and Pharamacy Ho Chi Minh City, Hue Medical University) Practical Clinical Research Workshops.
Back to Top
Selected grants
2015
The ACRF Image-X Institute: Eradicating Cancer through Innovation in Imaging and Targeted X-ray Therapy; Keall P, Barton M, Jackson M, Thwaites D, Kuncic Z, Fulton R, Foster K; Australian Cancer Research Foundation/Research Support.
Pre-elective on-line module romoting medical student wellbeing, safety and engagement in global health; Foster K, Bleasel J, Champion B, Somers D, Thien F, Huynh A; DVC Education/Large Educational Innovation Grant.
2012
Developing a partnership between Sydney Medical School and medical institutions in Ghana for capacity building in health education with focus on priority areas.; Amonoo-Kuofi H, Iddrisu B, Yakubu H, Foster K, Ahmed M, Sawleshwarkar S; Office of Global Engagement/IPDF Grant.
Back to Top
Selected publications
Download citations: PDF RTF Endnote
By type
By year
Expand all
Book Chapters
Nippita, T., Foster, K., Morris, J. (2014). Obstetric emergencies. In Jason Abbott, Lucy Bowyer, Martha Finn (Eds.), Obstetrics & Gynaecology: An Evidence-Based Guide, (pp. 201-218). Sydney: Elsevier.
Gerzina, T., Foster, K. (2013). Being a University Teacher: Teaching in Professions. In Stephen Loftus, Tania Gerzina, Joy Higgs, Megan Smith, Elaine Duffy (Eds.), Educating Health Professionals: Becoming a University Teacher, (pp. 23-32). Rotterdam: Sense Publishers.
Foster, K. (2011). Becoming a professional doctor. In Lesley Scanlon (Eds.), Becoming a Professional: an Interdisciplinary Analysis of Professional Learning, (pp. 171-193). Dordrecht: Springer.
Journals
O'Neill, S., Foster, K., Gilbert-Obrart, A. (2016). The Balint group experience for medical students: a pilot project. Psychoanalytic Psychotherapy, 30(1), 96-108. [More Information]
Roper, L., Foster, K., Garlan, K., Jorm, C. (2016). The challenge of authenticity for medical students. The Clinical Teacher, 13(2), 130-133. [More Information]
Foster, K., Roberts, C. (2016). The Heroic and the Villainous: A qualitative study characterising the role models that shaped senior doctors' professional identity. BMC Medical Education, 16(1), 1-11. [More Information]
Marsh, D., Foster, K., Scott, C. (2015). Match that PhD. Nature, 523, 247-247. [More Information]
Walton, M., Harrison, R., Burgess, A., Foster, K. (2015). Workplace training for senior trainees: A systematic review and narrative synthesis of current approaches to promote patient safety. Postgraduate Medical Journal, 91(1080), 579-587. [More Information]
Foster, K., Laurent, R. (2013). How we make good doctors into good teachers: A short course to support busy clinicians to improve their teaching skills. Medical Teacher, 35(1), 4-7. [More Information]
Ogle, S., Foster, K., Hilmer, S., Broadfoot, A., Thanh, H. (2010). Teaching Geriatric Medicine in Vietnam: Introduction of an interactive learning module for medical students. Australasian Journal on Ageing, 29(3). [More Information]
Hirst, J., Jeffery, H., Morris, J., Foster, K., Elliott, E. (2009). Application of evidence-based teaching in maternal and child health in remote Vietnam. International Journal of Gynecology and Obstetrics, 104(2), 152-155. [More Information]
Foster, K. (2009). Learning about medical professionalism - don't forget emotion!. The Clinical Teacher, 6(1), 9-12. [More Information]
Foster, K., Craven, P., Reid, S. (2006). Neonatal resuscitation educational experience of staff in New South Wales and Australian Capital Territory hospitals. Journal of Paediatrics and Child Health, 42(1-2), 16-19. [More Information]
Jeffery, H., Kocova, M., Tozija, F., Gjorgiev, D., Pop-Lazarova, M., Foster, K., Polverino, J., Hill, D. (2004). The Impact Of Evidence-Based Education On A Perinatal Capacity-Building Initiative In Macedonia. Medical Education Online, 38(4), 435-447. [More Information]
Bredemeyer, S., Foster, K. (2001). Multidisciplinary perinatal skills training for Macedonia. Neonatal, Paediatric and Child Health Nursing, 4(1), 20-22.
Show 9 more
Conferences
Mihailidou, A., Foster, K., Buckley, T., Lander, J., Koulias, M., Stephenson, C., Baird, J., Hamilton, E. (2015). Standardizing skills for taking the pressure off. 5th International Conference on Clinical & Experimental Cardiology, Philadelphia.
Back to Top
To update your profile click here. For support on your academic profile contact Office of Research and Research Training, Medicine.
© 2002-2017 The University of Sydney. Last Updated: 11-Apr-2013
ABN: 15 211 513 464. CRICOS Number: 00026A. Phone: +61 2 9351 2222.
Authorised by: Director, Community Engagement.
Contacts | Jobs | Library | Disclaimer | Privacy Statement