Skip to Navigation
Skip to Content
Skip to Footer
FUTURE STUDENTS
CURRENT STUDENTS
RESEARCH AND TEACHING
PARTNERS AND COMMUNITY
Site Search
Enter the terms you wish to search for.
You are here
UTS
Staff
Sue Hood
Associate Professor Sue Hood
Biography
Susan (Sue)  Hood is Associate Professor in Applied Linguistics at UTS with a strong research and teaching focus on educational linguistics, academic discourses, and discourse analysis more generally.
From a background in the teaching of English as another language, Sue’s academic career in language studies and language teacher education spans more than 20 years. She joined UTS in 2002 upon returning to Australia from a position of Principal Lecturer at the Hong Kong Polytechnic University. She has since been an invited teaching academic at major universities in China, Latin America, and Europe.
Significant publications include her 2010 book, Appraising Research: Evaluation in Academic Writing (Palgrave). She is co-editor (with Karl Maton and Suellen Shay) of the forthcoming Routledge volume, Knowledge-building: Educational studies in Legitimation Code Theory, and is currently working on a second monograph on story writing in academic publications.
Her discourse analytic studies draw on a social semiotic theorization of language (systemic functional linguistics) and of other modalities (systemic functional semiotics). This informs a study being undertaken on the role of body language in academic pedagogic encounters, with a focus on the relationships of technology, mode and pedagogy.
More +
Associate Professor, Adult Learning and Applied Linguistics Program
Dip Ed (Flinders ), BA (Flinders ), GradDipTEFL (Syd), MA (Syd), PhD (UTS)
  Email
Susan.Hood@uts.edu.au
Phone
+61 2 9514 3972
ORCID
0000-0001-8171-423X
Edit your profile
Research
Teaching Areas
Publications
Projects
Research Interests
Academic discourses
The construction of evaluative stance in  research writing
Knowledge, disciplinarity and discourse
The role of story telling in research writing
Theorisation and research of body language in pedagogic contexts
Technologies, modes and pedagogy 
Literacy in schooling
Senior secondary school subjects as sites of transition to tertiary literacy

Can supervise: Yes





















ABOUT UTS
The University
Maps and facilities
UTS governance
Faculties
Privacy statement
Disclaimer
LIBRARY
Search catalogue
What's on
Help and resources
NEWSROOM
Events
Find an expert
Media centre
STAFF
Staff Connect
Webmail
Staff Directory
Jobs at UTS
University of Technology Sydney
City campus
15 Broadway
Ultimo NSW 2007
Telephone
+61 2 9514 2000
Student inquiries
ask.uts.edu.au
Postal address
P.O. Box 123, Broadway, NSW 2007
See all
contacts
© Copyright UTS - CRICOS Provider No: 00099F - 11 June 2017 7:30 AM. The page is authorised by Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Vice-President (Corporate Services)