The University of Southampton
Courses
Undergraduate
Postgraduate taught
Postgraduate research
Foundation Years
How to apply
Free online learning
Continuing professional development
Prospectuses
Pre-sessional English language courses
University life
Choose Southampton
Fees & funding
Accommodation
International students
Study abroad & exchange
Campus life
City life
Careers & employability
Arts
Learning & teaching
Key dates
Research
Our impact
Facilities
Centres and institutes
Funding
Research & Innovation Services
Partnerships
Commercialising research
Researcher support
Research integrity
Business
Why work with us?
Collaboration
Consultancy
Commercialisation
Use our facilities
Connect with our students
How we operate
Suppliers
Make a business enquiry
Global
International Office
Partnerships map
Partnerships and initiatives
Visiting fellowships
Accessibility Tools
About
Visit
Alumni
Departments
News
Events
Contact
×
Medicine
Who we are
Our research
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
International
Enterprise
Academic units
Our alumni
Outreach
Our news, events & seminars
Contact us
Right
Our staff
Our approach
Achievements
What our students think
Executive team
International links
Home
>Medicine>Who we are>Our staff
Phone:
(023) 8120 5097
Email:
S.L.Buchan@soton.ac.uk
Dr Sarah Buchan BSc, PhD
Senior Post-Doctoral Research Fellow
Related links
As a Senior Research Fellow and immunologist I am fascinated by how T lymphocytes protect us against infection and how these amazing cells can be used to combat cancer. My research focusses on understanding how some of the receptors expressed on the surface of T lymphocytes can be manipulated to best mobilise anti-tumour immunity.
T cells are motile killers capable of specifically destroying cancerous and infected cells; understanding what controls these powerful assassins will allow new cancer treatments to be developed.
Dr Buchan completed her PhD at the University of Southampton in 2005 studying the optimization of vaccine design and delivery to maximize T-cell responses to cancer cells under Prof. F. K. Stevenson. The principles established by this research, and her subsequent work targeting the leukemia-associated antigen WT1, triggered the inception of several ongoing clinical trials in cancer patients, overseen by Prof C. Ottensmeier.

In 2008 she moved to the group of Prof. Al-Shamkhani to study how members of the tumour necrosis factor superfamily modify the quality and quantity of T-cell activation. In 2009 she was awarded the Faculty Post-Doctoral Career Track Award enabling her to continue her research investigating the processes that regulate T-cell activity and function and how this information can be exploited for the eradication of cancer. 
Qualifications
BSc, Biology, University of Southampton (1998)
PhD, University of Southampton (2005)
Appointments held
2001-2005 Research Assistant/Part-time PhD student, University of Southampton

2005-2008 Post-Doctoral Research Fellow, University of Southampton

2008-present Senior Post-Doctoral Fellow and Career-Track Fellow, University of Southampton.
Research
Responsibilities
Publications
Teaching
Contact
Research interests
Dr Buchan’s research interests revolve around the biology of T lymphocytes, a key cell type used by the immune system to combat infectious disesases and cancer. Her research seeks to understand how these cells can be activated to respond to tumour cells in vivo and how T-cell activity can be maintained in the face of suppressive mechanisms exploited by tumour cells.
Activating anti-tumour T cells
Encouraging the activation of cancer-reactive T cells can be problematic in vivo as cancerous cells derive from ‘self’, posing a challenge for the immune system which is designed to respond to ‘foreign’ antigens. Nonetheless, with Prof. F.K.Stevenson and her team in Southampton, Dr Buchan has shown that DNA vaccines encoding both a ‘foreign’ sequence from tetanus toxoid and a tumour-derived target sequence, are able to engage the immune system and drive activation and expansion of tumour-specific T cells in mice. Delivering these vaccines in a site transiently exposed to an alternating electrical current (a process called electroporation) further enhanced the efficacy of DNA vaccination and enabled aproximately 80% of mice to reject colon carcinoma in vivo. This combination of electroporation and DNA vaccination also conferred significant protection from tumour growth in a therapeutic setting. As a result of these data, the first clinical trial evaluating the combination of DNA vaccination and electroporation in cancer patients is ongoing, overseen by Prof. C. Ottensmeier.
Further research, using ‘humanised’ mice, showed that DNA vaccines can be used to activate T cells specific for human-relevant peptides derived from the tumour-associated target, WT1. Of note, WT1-specific T cells activated by DNA vaccination in humanised mice killed human leukaemia cell lines in vitro suggesting that this DNA vaccine design may be efficacious in patients. A clinical trial evaluating this WT1-targeting DNA vaccine design is currently ongoing.
Overcoming immune suppressive mechanisms in vivo
In recent years it has become apparent that T cells present at tumour sites often become ‘exhausted’ characterised by decreased effector function and a propensity to undergo programmed cell death, driven by negative signals supplied through e.g. PD-1. To overcome these suppressive mechanisms Dr Buchan has more recently been working with the group of Prof A. Al-Shamkhani to explore the T-cell activatory properties of members of the TNF receptor superfamily. This large family of receptors engage intracellular signalling pathways in T cells, including the pro-survival NF-kB pathway, to augment T-cell activation and longevity. Current research is focussed on exploring whether agonistic antibodies directed against members of the TNFRSF can augment local T-cell function in vivo and thereby improve rates of tumour regression. In parallel, and with Dr R Chakraverty at University College London, the team are exploring whether TNFRSF agonists can maintain functional anti-leukaemia T cells in the absence of overt graft-versus-host disease after bone marrow transplantation. This important project models the clinical situation in which leukaemia patients are irradiated and then receive allogeneic bone marrow transplantation as part of their treatment regime. In this setting T cells deriving from the donor provide protection from resurgence of leukaemia (termed graft versus leukaemia or GvL), but unfortunately, often cause graft versus host disease (GvHD) driven by irradiation-induced inflammation. GvL in the absence of GvHD can be achieved by removing T cells from the initial bone marrow transplant, and instead supplying T cells at later time points after irradiation (called delayed donor lymphocyte infusion; DLI). However, while this allows initial GvL reactivity without GvHD, continual exposure to antigen results in donor T cells becoming ‘exhausted’. Ongoing research is investigating which TNFRSF agonists are most effective at preventing T cells differentiating to an exhausted phenotype, and/or whether TNFRSF agonists can reverse T-cell exhaustion once established.
An additional element of this research is to study the nature of NF-kB activation driven through members of the TNFRSF. This signalling pathway activates pleiotropic downstream phenotypes in cells and Dr Buchan’s previous research shows that some of this diversity may be due, at least in part, to differential activation of the alternative and canonical NF-kB pathways by distinct regions of individual TNFRSF members. Understanding how these signals are regulated at the sub-receptor level may therefore provide a platform for modulating the quality of the anti-tumour T-cell response, and this remains an area of interest.
Academic unit(s)
Cancer Sciences Academic Unit






Share this profile
Facebook Google+ Twitter Weibo
Information for
Visitors
Staff & students
Schools & colleges
Researchers
Employers & recruiters
Parents & guardians
Students from outside UK/EU
Contact us
+44(0)23 8059 5000
+44(0)23 8059 3131
Address
University of Southampton
University Road
Southampton
SO17 1BJ
United Kingdom
Get directions ›
Connect with us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
LinkedIn
YouTube
Download University of Southampton prospectus
Download a PDF of our prospectus or order a printed copy to be delivered to your door.
Download a prospectus
© 2017 University of Southampton
Site map
Freedom of information
Terms & conditions
Contact
Jobs
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue without changing your settings, we will assume that you are happy to receive cookies on the University of Southampton website.
×