VIVO
Weill Cornell Medical College
Index
Log in
Home
People
Organizations
Research
Support
Jessica R Berman   Associate Professor of Medicine
Publications
Background
Contact
Other
Phone
+1 212 774 7501
Associate Professor of Medicine, Joan and Sanford I. Weill Department of Medicine , Weill Cornell Medical College 2012 - 2017
Assistant Professor of Medicine, Joan and Sanford I. Weill Department of Medicine , Weill Cornell Medical College 2005 - 2012
Instructor in Medicine, Joan and Sanford I. Weill Department of Medicine , Weill Cornell Medical College 2003 - 2005
Fellow in Medicine, Joan and Sanford I. Weill Department of Medicine , Weill Cornell Medical College 2000 - 2003
Dr. Jessica R. Berman specializes in the treatment of systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, and mixed and undifferentiated connective tissue diseases. Throughout her career, she has published numerous papers and has been heavily involved in lupus research. Dr. Berman is an Assistant Attending Rheumatologist at Hospital for Special Surgery.
Dr. Jessica R. Berman specializes in the treatment of systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, and mixed and undifferentiated connective tissue diseases. Throughout her career, she has published numerous papers and has been heavily involved in lupus research. Dr. Berman is an Assistant Attending Rheumatologist at Hospital for Special Surgery.
PUBLICATIONS
Sort by
Newest
Oldest
Times Cited
Publication Type
Journal Name
Co-Author Network
Selected publications
Rheumatology Research Foundation Clinician Scholar Educator Award: Fifteen Years Promoting Rheumatology Educators and Education.  Arthritis care & research. 2016 In Process GET IT
Fellow use of medical jargon correlates inversely with patient and observer perceptions of professionalism: results of a rheumatology OSCE (ROSCE) using challenging patient scenarios.  Clinical Rheumatology.  2016 Academic Article GET IT
Reply: To PMID 25779102.  Arthritis and Rheumatology. 2015 Information Resource GET IT
Refractory sarcoid arthritis in World Trade Center-exposed New York City firefighters: a case series.  Journal of clinical rheumatology : practical reports on rheumatic & musculoskeletal diseases.  2015 Academic Article GET IT
Creating an academy of medical educators: how and where to start.  HSS journal : the musculoskeletal journal of Hospital for Special Surgery.  2012 Academic Article GET IT
A comparison of arthrocentesis teaching tools: cadavers, synthetic joint models, and the relative utility of different educational modalities in improving trainees' comfort with procedures.  Journal of clinical rheumatology : practical reports on rheumatic & musculoskeletal diseases.  2012 Academic Article GET IT



more ...
BACKGROUND
Education and Training
M.D., Harvard Medical School 1997
M.A., University of Chicago 1990
B.A., Vassar College 1988
CONTACT
Primary Email
webpage
Clinical Profile
©2017 VIVO Project | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO