Departments & Centers | Contact | Donate | Quicklinks▼
Patient Care
Allied Health Professions
Dentistry
Graduate Studies
Medicine
Nursing
Public Health
Wednesday, June 21, 2017   7:46 PM    |   81°F
Faculty
Residency
Fellowships
Research
Links
Sections
Curriculum
New Orleans
Department of Internal Medicine
Parsons, Christopher H.
Professor of Medicine and Microbiology
Director, HIV Malignancy Program
Translational Tumor Virology Group
Louisiana Cancer Research Center - New Orleans, LA
tel:  (504) 210-3328
fax:  (504) 568-5553
Degrees
M.D., Case Western Reserve School of Medicine
Bio
Dr. Parsons has over 12 years of experience in HIV-related research and patient care. He received his medical degree from the Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine in Cleveland, OH in 1998 following completion of a one-year pathology fellowship program focused on HIV-associated pathology. He completed his internal medicine residency training in the Osler Training Program at Johns Hopkins Hospital in 2001, and a fellowship in Infectious Diseases and International Health at the University of Virginia in 2004. After serving as an Assistant Professor of Research at UVA until 2006, he joined the faculty of the Medical University of South Carolina where he developed an NIH-funded basic and translational research program to better understand mechanisms for virus-associated cancers arising preferentially in the setting of HIV infection, focusing on Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). His research group moved to New Orleans and the Louisiana Cancer Research Center in 2012 with the goal of facilitating clinical translation of promising laboratory research related to HIV and cancer, and to increase enrollment of underrepresented HIV patients in state-of-the-art cooperative and investigator-initiated clinical trials for cancer treatment and prevention. This program serves HIV patients receiving care at one of several medical homes in the New Orleans, Baton Rouge, and other surrounding areas, which have some of the highest incidence and prevalence rates for HIV infection per capita in the U.S. This includes the LSU HIV Outpatient (HOP) Clinic, one of the largest urban-based community HIV clinics in the U.S. serving approximately 3,000 patients, where Dr. Parsons serves as a faculty leader for outpatient HIV clinic training within the Infectious Diseases Fellowship Training Program at LSU.
Clinical Interests
Clinical trials for cancer treatment and prevention in the setting of HIV infection.  Topics:  use of anti-inflammatory agents for reduction of oncogenic viral reservoirs; sphingosine kinase inhibitors for targeting virus-infected tumors; treatment and prevention of Kaposi's sarcoma; treatment of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.
Sign In
Disclaimer
© 2017 LSU Health New Orleans
Privacy Policy