Find Info For
Apply
News
President
Shop
Visit
Give
Emergency
Health & Kinesiology
College of Health and Human Sciences
Home
Directory
Research
Community Engagement
News
About
Information For
DirectoryFaculty
Gerald C. Hyner
Research Interests:
Gerry Hyner has authored or coauthored scientific papers in journals such as: the Journal of Health Education, Health Education Research, the American Journal of Health Promotion, Family and Community Health, the Journal of the American Medical Association, the Journal of Occupational Medicine, the International Quarterly of Community Health Education and Methods of Information in Medicine. He was a contributing editor to the Handbook of Health Assessment Tools and he has coauthored books on health promotion and disease prevention. He has presented papers at both national and international meetings. His discovery has focused on the use of computerized health risk appraisals as a means of influencing health-promoting behavior and lowering health care costs. He has examined the effects of risk reduction strategies in occupational settings and was funded to conduct health promotion interventions for ambulatory older adults. He is currently examining models for planning and evaluating noninvasive health assessments in both healthy and at-risk subjects. Gerry Hyner joined the Purdue faculty in 1982 and is an active member of the Purdue Speakers Bureau.
Education:
Ph.D. (1979), The Pennsylvania State University, University Park
B.A. (1972), St. Vincent College, Latrobe, PA
Curriculum Vitae
Faculty Directory
Research Training Areas
Professor
Lambert, Room 106B
Phone: (765) 494-4518
Fax: (765) 496-1239
Email: hyner@purdue.edu
Center on Aging and Life Course
OneCampus
Blackboard
Purdue Today
Office 365
Outlook
myPurdue
Faculty and Staff
Careers
Physical Facilities
Directory
Campus Map
Construction
Blackboard
Environmental Health & Public Safety
Libraries
ITaP
Center for Healthy Living
LAMB Building Emergency Plan
Clery Reporting Act
Tuition Calculator
Ethics & Compliance
Speak Up
Health & Kinesiology, 800 W. Stadium Ave., West Lafayette, IN 47907, PH:(765) 494-3170, Fax: (765) 496-1239
2016 Purdue University | An equal access/equal opportunity university | Copyright Complaints | Maintained by Health & Kinesiology
If you have trouble accessing this page because of a disability, please contact Purdue Marketing and Media at marketing@purdue.edu.