Our site uses cookies to help give you a better experience. By continuing to use it you consent to the use of cookies as set out in our cookie policy.
Close
Home
About
Study
Research
International
Innovation
Business
Donate
News
Events
Cymraeg
People
Home
People
Professor Dinah Gould
Professor Dinah Gould
Professor in Nursing
School of Healthcare Sciences
gouldd@cardiff.ac.uk
+44 (0)29 206 88563
Room 13.06, 13th Floor, Eastgate House, 35-43 Newport Road, Cardiff CF24 0AB
Overview
Publications
Research
Teaching
Biography
My research programme has a strong clinical focus and is primarily concerned with promoting patient safety. Key themes are preventing healthcare-associated infections, applying principles from the biological sciences to patient care to promote health and safety and the educational preparation of health workers to reduce risks and promote patient safety. I am interested in the impact of workforce issues on patient safety and optimising health workers'  education and training to promote safe and effective care in hospital and community settings.
Academic Interests
I have a long-standing interest in non-antibiotic approaches to preventing healthcare-associated infection and much of my research has focused on hand hygiene: its effectiveness and limitations, strategies to improve health workers'   hand hygiene compliance and methods of audit and measurement. I am particularly interested in the under-researched issue of hand hygiene technique and the importance of ensuring optimal technique when there is high risk of infection transfer. Other important strands of this programme of research focus on improving patients'   and public understanding of healthcare-associated infection and health workers'  education and training to enable them to reduce the risks of infection.
I undertake mainly quantitative and mixed methods research. A member of the Cochrane Collaboration$acirc;  s Evaluation of Practice and Care Group based in Ottowa, I am the lead investigator for a systematic review that evaluates interventions to improve hand hygiene compliance and reduce infection in patient care (hospitals and nursing homes). This original review attracted over thirty media hits internationally in its first week of publication and its updated version continues to be widely used to introduce undergraduate and postgraduate health sciences students to the skills of critical appraisal.
People
We are driven by creativity and curiosity to push back the frontiers of knowledge.
In this section
University directory
Current staff and students can search the full University directory in the intranet.
University switchboard
+44 (0)29 2087 4000
Find us
Cardiff University, Cardiff, CF10 3AT
The University
Academic Schools
Visit us
Contact us
Emergency contacts
Public information
Our facilities
Libraries
Conferences
Research equipment
Connect with us
New students
Alumni
Blogs
Quick links
Job opportunities
Intranet
Media centre
Copyright Cardiff University. Registered charity no. 1136855
Accessibility
Modern slavery statement
Privacy
Terms of use
Cookies