We use cookies to help give you the best experience on our website. Find out more about cookies.
Skip to main content
Search
Admissions
Undergraduate
Postgraduate Taught
Postgraduate Research
Graduate Scholarships
Options and Core Courses
Pathways to Law
Research and Subject Groups
Centres & Institutes
Bonavero Institute of Human Rights
Centre for Criminology
Centre for Socio-Legal Studies
Institute of European and Comparative Law
Oxford Intellectual Property Research Centre
News
Events
Past Events
Inaugural Lectures and Special Lectures
People
Academics
Researchers
Support staff
Research students
Visiting Professors
Faculty officers
Postgraduate taught students
About us
Contact us
International activities
Law Foundation
Libraries
The St Cross Building
Vacancies
Academic Visitor Programme
INFO FOR:
CURRENT STUDENTS
STAFF
ALUMNI
BENEFACTORS
LOG IN
YOU ARE HERE
People
Nicos Stavropoulos
Associate Professor of Legal Theory
BIOGRAPHY
PUBLICATIONS
INTERESTS
CONTACT
ADDRESS
Faculty of Law
St. Cross Building,
St. Cross Road
Oxford OX1 3UL
EmailWebsite
In People
Academics
Researchers
Support staff
Research students
Visiting Professors
Faculty officers
Postgraduate taught students
BIOGRAPHY
B. Jur. (Athens), LL.M. (Lond), D.Phil. (Oxon).
Nicos Stavropoulos is the Associate Professor of Legal Theory. He holds the permanent post in legal philosophy that was newly established by the University in 1999. He teaches and supervises research in jurisprudence. His research interests are in legal and political philosophy and the philosophy of language. His book Objectivity in Law was published by the Clarendon Press. He is currently working on a book on the grounds of law, which explores the mechanism through which political institutions shape the law. In recent work he explores different approaches to this fundamental explanation and the role of language within it.
Stavropoulos completed the DPhil at Brasenose.  Prior to joining the Faculty he practiced for several years, and served as Special Adviser in policy units under the Minister of Energy and Industry of Greece and at the Secretariat of the Cabinet under the Prime Minister of Greece.
Stavropoulos has been a Fellow at the Program in Law and Public Affairs at Princeton University. He serves on the board of Legal Theory and Law and Philosophy.
TOP
Connect with the Faculty
© The Faculty of Law University of Oxford Data Protection Freedom of Information Cookies Contact us