Griffith University
Griffith Experts
myGriffith
Staff portal
Contact us
Search
Future students
International
Research
Industry
Alumni
About Griffith
Staff
LOGIN
Home
Academics
Projects
Publications
Datasets
Services
Support
Academic Profile
Home Academics Caroline Donovan
Export QR Code
Overview
Research Publications and Outputs
Funded Griffith Research
Learning and Teaching
Research by Higher Degree Supervision or Scholarship
Background
Dr

Caroline Donovan
BA, PhD, ISRII, AACBT, APS
My reserach is grounded in a strong belief in the importance of prevention and early intervention of mental health problems and their ability to avert the otherwise problematic trajectories of young people.
Affiliations
Menzies Health Institute QLD
School of Applied Psychology
Contact this Academic
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;55
Publications by Fields of Research
02040602007200820092010201120122013201420152016&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Publications by Year
Overview
Current Work
The majority of my resarch focuses on child and adolescent psychopathology and in particular, the areas of anxiety, depression and sleep issues. My primary area of research involves efficacy trials of both face-to-face and internet-based cognitive-behavioural therapy programs for anxious children and adolescents. The BRAVE-ONLINE programs developed by our team, are the first of their type in the world for anxious youth, and are now available free of charge to all Australian families free of charge through beyondblue. A secondary area of interest for me, is male and female body image and the role of societal ideals of what is considered 'beautiful' and 'masculine'.  
Expertise Keywords
Anxiety Disorders in Youth
Body Image and Ideals
Depression in Youth
Internet Therapy
Sleep Related Problems in Youth
Subject Area Codes
Psychology
Research Publications and Outputs
Recent Publications
Publications: 55 (Journal Articles (Refereed Article): 46, Book Chapter: 9)
Donovan, C., Holmes, M., Farrell, L., & Hearn, C. (2017). Thinking about worry: Investigation of the cognitive components of worry in children. Journal of Affective Disorders, 208, 230–237.
Dwan, T., Ownsworth, T., Donovan, C., & Lo, A. H. Y. (2017). Reliability of the NEO Five Factor Inventory short form for assessing personality after stroke. International Psychogeriatrics, 29(7), 1157–1168.
Hearn, C., Donovan, C., Spence, S., & March, S. (2017). A worrying trend in Social Anxiety: To what degree are worry and its cognitive factors associated with youth Social Anxiety Disorder? Journal of Affective Disorders, 208, 33–40.
Spence, S., Donovan, C., March, S., Kenardy, J. A., & Hearn, C. (2017). Generic versus disorder specific cognitive behavior therapy for social anxiety disorder in youth: A randomized controlled trial using internet delivery. Behaviour Research and Therapy, 90, 41–57.
Bell, H., Donovan, C., & Ramme, R. (2016). Is athletic really ideal? An examination of the mediating role of body dissatisfaction in predicting disordered eating and compulsive exercise. Eating Behaviors, 21, 24–29.
Show More...
Funded Griffith Research
(2011). Evaluation of Transdiagnostic versus Disorder-Specific, Internet-Based Cognitive-Behaviour Treatment of Anxiety disorders in Young People
(2010). A pilot investigation of an online, parent-only, cognitive-behavioural intervention for preschool children with anxiety
(2009). Investigation of a brief, intensive cognitive-behavioural treatment program for child social phobia
Learning and Teaching
Teaching Philosophy
My aim is to create an engaging, motivating and intellectually stimulating learning experience for my students, with my teaching philosophy being based on mutual respect for my students and use of their feedback to continuously improve my teaching.  
Current and Past Courses
Professional Psychology A (6023PSY)
Convenor, In Person, Gold Coast Campus, Semester 1, 2016.
Advanced Professional Practice (7146PSY)
Convenor, In Person, Mt. Gravatt Campus, Semester 1, 2016.
Advanced Professional Practice (7146PSY)
Teacher, In Person, Mt. Gravatt Campus, Semester 1, 2016.
Professional Psychology A (6023PSY)
Convenor, In Person, Mt. Gravatt Campus, Semester 1, 2016.
Professional Psychology A (6023PSY)
Teacher, In Person, Mt. Gravatt Campus, Semester 1, 2016.
Show More...
Research by Higher Degree Supervision or Scholarship
Apply for a PhD or research degree at Griffith
Supervision Overview
I have been the primary supervisor of 13 PhD students, 6 of whom have completed, and 7 of whom are continuing. I have also supervised 10 DPsych students (nine of whom have completed), 7 MPsych students (five of whom have completed), and 22 Honours students (19 of whom have completed). I take my supervision very seriously, and have a strong and wonderful team of up and coming researchers.
Theses Supervised at Griffith
Benjamin James Walters (2016) More than Words: An Examination of Intimate Expression in Men’s Homosocial Friendships Thesis (PhD Doctorate)
Monique Colette Holmes (2014) No Worries - It's Just Not That Easy!: Investigation and Treatment of Worry and Generalised Anxiety Disorder in Children Thesis (PhD Doctorate)
Naomi Michelle Beutel (2011) Predictors of Posttraumatic Stress Disorder in an Australian Community Sample of Young People Thesis (PhD Doctorate)
Samantha Jayne Prosser (2011) The Treatment of Child Anxiety Disorders Using Online Cognitive-Behavioural Therapy: An Investigation of Family Factors and Treatment Compliance as Predictors of Child Treatment Outcome Thesis (PhD Doctorate)
Haley Webb (2013) The Role of Friends in Adolescent Appearance-Based Rejection Sensitivity: An Exploration of Individual Perceptions of the Friendship Context, and Interactions Within Best Friend Dyads and Friendship Groups Thesis (PhD Doctorate)
Background
Bio
Education and Training
Academic experience
Awards and Honours
Internal service roles
External service roles
Editorial roles
External advisory roles
Professional memberships
Bio
I am a Clinical Psychologist and Senior Lecturer within the School of Applied Psychology at Griffith University. I have full registration as a Psychologist with the Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency (AHPRA), and am a member of the Australian Psychological Society and the APS College of Clinical Psychologists. I have received $1.2 million dollars worth of funding throughout my career and have published 10 book chapters and 40 peer reviewed journal articles. I have presented at numerous national and international conferences and I am on the Editorial Boards of Child Psychiatry and Human Development and Australian Psychologist. I have supervised 13 PhD students, 10 DPsych students, 8 MPsych students and 22 Honours students. I also have a small private practice that I run through the Griffith University Psychology Clinic.

My research philosophy centres around a strong belief in early intervention and its ability to change the otherwise problematic trajectories of youth with mental health disorders. My interests lie in youth anxiety, depression, sleep and body image issues, and my research focuses on examining the underlying mechanisms of these disorders as well as the efficacy of treatment strategies within a youth population.  
Study areas
Business and government
Criminology and law
Education
Engineering and IT
Environment, planning and architecture
Health
Humanities and languages
Music
Science and aviation
Visual and creative arts
Online degrees
Getting to Griffith
Gold Coast campus
Logan campus
Mount Gravatt campus
Nathan campus
South Bank campus
Cycling
Intercampus bus
Maps
Parking
On campus
Accommodation
Aquatic and Fitness Centre
Bookshops
Clubs
Food
Griffith College
Library
Medical
Memorabilia
Shops
Sport
Tennis
What's on
Support
Childcare
Copying and printing
Equity
Fees and charges
Griffith Pay
Griffith Honours College
GUMURRII Student Support Unit
Information Services
International
Printing services
Room bookings
Student services
Student support
Academic groups
Arts, Education and Law
Griffith Business School
Griffith Health
Griffith Sciences
Contact us
Emergency information
Media
Security
Addresses
Email
Phone
Privacy policy Copyright matters CRICOS Provider - 00233E
First peoples of Australia Aboriginal Torres Strait Islander
Need help? Ask us
Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Linkedin
Gold Coast Logan Brisbane Australia