Current Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Stern Life
Experience Stern
Research, Faculty, Social, News
Programs & Admissions
Degrees & Executive Education
Business Partnerships
Recruiting, Organizations, Collaborations
SEARCH
Experience Faculty & Research
Refine by:
Books
Opinion
Research Highlights
Research in the News
Blogs
Videos
Archive
Faculty Directory
Home / Experience Stern / Faculty & Research / Faculty Directory / Jacob Jacoby
Share / Print
Jacob Jacoby
– Merchants' Council Professor in Retail Management and Consumer Behavior
Joined Stern 1981
Leonard N. Stern School of Business
Tisch Hall
40 West Fourth Street, 909
New York, NY 10012
E-mail jjacoby@stern.nyu.edu
Personal website
Biography
Research Interests
Courses Taught
Academic Background
Biography
Jacob (Jack) Jacoby is a Professor of Marketing at the Stern School of Business, New York University, where he holds an endowed chair as the Merchants Council Professor of Retail Management and Consumer Behavior. Professor Jacoby earned a B.A. and M.A. from Brooklyn College, and a Ph.D. from Michigan State University, all in Psychology. He has won numerous awards for his scholarship, including the American Marketing Association's Harold H. Maynard Award, the American Academy of Advertising's "Outstanding Contribution to Advertising" award, the Society of Consumer Psychology's bi-annual "Distinguished Scientist Award," and the Fellow award from the Association for Consumer Research. He recently was identified as one of six Legends in Consumer Behavior by Sage Publications who has re-published many of his articles and chapters as an eight volume compendium.
Professor Jacoby's research, portions of which have been funded by the National Science Foundation and the American Association of Advertising Agencies, has focused on consumer decision making, especially on the impact that external factors (such as advertising and packaging) have on decision making and behavior. Other major research streams have included information overload, consumer comprehension and miscomprehension of advertising communications, perceived product quality, brand loyalty, and developments and research methodology, particularly behavioral simulations. His current research focuses on public policy issues regarding trademark and advertising law (e.g., deceptive advertising).
In addition to six books and numerous book chapters, Professor Jacoby has published articles in a wide range of journals, including Journal of Consumer Research, Journal of Consumer Psychology, Journal of Marketing Research, Journal of Marketing, American Psychologist, Journal of Experimental Social Psychology, Educational and Psychological Measurement, Public Opinion Quarterly, Journal of Applied Psychology, Computers in Human Behavior, Journal of Public Policy and Marketing, Journal of Behavioral Finance, Journal of Advertising Research, the Trademark Reporter, Roger Williams University Law Review, Cardozo Arts and Entertainment Law Journal and Marquette Intellectual Property Law Review. Professor Jacoby has served terms as President of the American Psychological Association's Society of Consumer Psychology and President of the Association for Consumer Research.
At the Stern School, he has taught Consumer Behavior in the undergraduate, M.B.A and Ph.D. programs, Research Methods in the M.B.A and Ph.D programs, and Introductory Marketing and Advertising Management in the undergraduate program.
Research Interests
Advertising and Packaging Effects
Decision Making
Research Methods
Ethics
Intellectual Property issues
Courses Taught
Advertising Management
Consumer Behavior
Introduction to Marketing
Research Methods
Academic Background
Ph.D., Social Psychology, 1966
Michigan State University
M.A., Psychology, 1963
Brooklyn College
B.A., Psychology, 1961
Brooklyn College
Related News & Research
Professor Jacob Jacoby weighs in on Coca-Cola's attempt to trademark "zero" for its beverages

Professor Jacob Jacoby explains how businesses can foster impulse buying

Prof. Jacob Jacoby on the trademark dispute between Disney and Deadmau5

Prof. Jacob Jacoby weighs in on a Brooklyn coffee shop's high-end latte offering

Trademark Surveys, Volume 1: Designing, Implementing and Evaluating Surveys

Areas of Expertise
Marketing
Advertising/Marketing/PR Strategies
Consumer Psychology/Behavior
Market Research
Trademarks


Faculty Directory Leadership Team Visit Stern Contact Us
Make a Gift
Join us in our mission to develop people and ideas that create value for business and society.
twitter
facebook
instagram
youtube
linkedin
googleplus
opinions
Sitemap | Privacy | New York University
©2017 Leonard N. Stern School of Business   