skip to primary navigation
skip to content
View menu
Search
Home
Study at Cambridge
Undergraduate
Graduate
International students
Continuing education
Executive and professional education
Courses in education
About the University
How the University and Colleges work
History
Visiting the University
Term dates and calendars
Map
For media
Video and audio
Find an expert
Publications
Global Cambridge
News
Events
Public engagement
Jobs
Give to Cambridge
Research at Cambridge
Give to Cambridge
For staff
For current students
For alumni
For business
Colleges & departments
Libraries & facilities
Museums & collections
Email & phone search
Log in
Faculty of Music
Menu
Home
About us
Study Music at Cambridge
Research
People
Performance
What's On
News
Resources
Intranet
Dr Alan Howard
Director of Studies, Selwyn College
Director of Studies, Queens' College

Email: adh29@cam.ac.uk
Office Phone: 01223 335895
Websites:
https://cambridge.academia.edu/AlanHoward?
http://em.oxfordjournals.org/
Download as vCard
Biography:
Alan Howard is College Lecturer and Director of Studies in Music at Selwyn College, and Director of Studies in Music at Queens’ College.  

Alan's research focuses on the music of Henry Purcell and his contemporaries in Restoration England, and more broadly on music between the sixteenth and early eighteenth centuries. Methodologically, alongside interests in historical musicology and editorial practice, he is particularly interested in developing contextualised analytical approaches to this repertoire; his Ph.D. thesis ‘Purcell and the Poetics of Artifice: Compositional Strategies in the Fantasias and Sonatas’ (King’s College London, 2006; supervised by Prof. Laurence Dreyfus), explored the analytical potential of contrapuntal artifice in the context of Restoration ideas about the nature of musical expression. He has published research in leading journals including the Journal of the Royal Musical Association, Music and Letters, The Musical Times and Early Music; his edition of Odes on the Death of Henry Purcell for the Purcell Society was published by Stainer & Bell late in 2013, as was a volume of essays jointly edited with Rebecca Herissone, Concepts of Creativity in Seventeenth-Century England (a full list of published research can be found here). Current projects include a book for Cambridge University Press, and critical editions for the Works of John Eccles (Theatre Music, vol. 3) and Musica Britannica (William Croft, Occasional Odes), as well as further volumes for the Purcell Society.

A graduate of the Faculty himself, prior to returning to Cambridge Alan was a postdoctoral research associate at the University of Manchester on the AHRC-funded project ‘Musical Creativity in Restoration England’ (2006–2009), and later Lecturer in Music at the University of East Anglia, Norwich (2009–2014). His undergraduate teaching has encompassed harmony and counterpoint, analysis and historical topics ranging from early English consort music to Mozart and Beethoven, via Restoration music and Bach and Handel in between. An active choral tenor, he was director of the UEA Chamber Choir and the Thetford Singers and currently conducts the Cantus Singers of Cambridge. He is co-editor (with Helen Deeming and Stephen Rose, both of RHUL) of the leading journal Early Music, which is based in the Faculty; he is also a member of the Purcell Society Committee and a general Editor of A-R Editions' Works of John Eccles.

Departments and Institutes
Selwyn College:
Quick links
Music prospectus
Academic staff
Music research
Admissions office
Outreach
Instrumental Awards Scheme
Pendlebury Library
West Road Concert Hall
@camunimusic on Twitter
Faculty of Music on Facebook
Youtube
Latest news
VIDEO: Liszt opera premiere
Jun 16, 2017
Booking open for Music Masterclass on 15 July
Jun 12, 2017
Arthur Bliss Prize for Composition
Jun 12, 2017
Ian Cross named as Editor-in-chief of new SAGE journal, Music & Science
Jun 09, 2017
Francesca Vella awarded a British Academy Postdoctoral Fellowship at the Faculty of Music
Jun 05, 2017
David Roche selected for Sound and Music Portfolio Scheme
Jun 05, 2017
View all news
Faculty of Music on Twitter
Contact us
Postal Address:
Faculty of Music, 11 West Road
Cambridge CB3 9DP
Information provided by:
   faculty.music.webmaster@gmail.com
Site Privacy & Cookie Policies
Connect
Music Links
© 2015 University of Cambridge
University A-Z
Contact the University
Accessibility
Freedom of information
Terms and conditions
Study at Cambridge
About the University
How the University and Colleges work
Visiting the University
Map
News
Events
Jobs
Give to Cambridge
Research at Cambridge
This Site Uses Cookies
We may use cookies to record some preference settings and to analyse how you use our web site. We may also use external analysis systems which may set additional cookies to perform their analysis.These cookies (and any others in use) are detailed in our site privacy and cookie policies and are integral to our web site. You can delete or disable these cookies in your web browser if you wish but then our site may not work correctly.
I have read and understood this message. Hide this message