Cookies help us to give you the best experience on our website. You can change your cookie settings if you wish. Otherwise we'll assume you're OK to continue.OKSee our policy
UK
China
Malaysia
MAIN MENU
     School of Life Sciences
MENU
         William Dunn
Director, BMedSci. Designated Individual, HTA Research Licence., Faculty of Medicine & Health Sciences
Download to vCard
Back to the Staff Directory
Personal Details
Research
Publications
Contact
Room E34a University of Nottingham Medical School
Queen's Medical Centre
Nottingham
NG7 2UH
UK
0115 82 30188
0115 82 30142
william.dunn@nottingham.ac.uk
Research Summary
Interests
The structure and function of human blood vessels in health and disease.
Endothelial function in normal pregnancy and in pregnancies complicated by pre-eclampsia.
Autonomic neurotransmission in small arteries.
Techniques
Pressure myography.
Sharp microelectrode recordings of membrane potential.
Continuous amperometry for real-time monitoring of noradrenaline release from sympathetic nerves.
Light and electron microscopy.
Projects
Endothelium function in normal and compromised pregnancies (Wellcome Trust).
Sympathetic neurotransmission in the resistance vasculature (Wellcome Trust).
Endocannabinoids and nervous function (Royal Society).
Centre Collaborators
Prof. Terry Mayhew
Dr. Vera Ralevic
Dr. Michael Randall
Dr. Vincent Wilson
UK Collaborators
Professor Phil Baker (University of Manchester).
International Collaborators
Dr James Brock (Prince of Wales Medical Research Institute, Sydney, Australia).
Selected Publications
HAMMOND, S., MATHEWSON, A.M., BAKER, P.N., MAYHEW, T.M. and DUNN, W.R., 2011. Gap junctions and hydrogen peroxide are involved in endothelium-derived hyperpolarising responses to bradykinin in omental arteries and veins isolated from pregnant women European Journal of Pharmacology. 668(1-2), 225-232
HOPPS, J.J., DUNN, W.R. and RANDALL, M.D., 2012. Enhanced vasorelaxant effects of the endocannabinoid-like mediator, oleamide, in hypertension. European Journal of Pharmacology. 684, 102-107
HOPPS, J.J., DUNN, W.R. and RANDALL, M.D., 2012. Vasorelaxation to capsaicin and its effects on calcium influx in arteries. European Journal of Pharmacology. 681, 88-93
MOORE, R.J., ONG, S.S., TYLER, D.J., DUCKETT, R., BAKER, P.N., DUNN, W.R., JOHNSON, I.R. and GOWLAND, P.A., 2008. Spiral artery blood volume in normal pregnancies and those compromised by pre-eclampsia NMR in Biomedicine. 21(4), 376-380
View all publications
School of Life Sciences
University of Nottingham
Medical School
Queen's Medical Centre
Nottingham NG7 2UH
Contact us
Legal information
Copyright
Terms and conditions
Privacy
Posting rules
Accessibility
Freedom of information
Charity gateway
Cookie policy
Get social
Connect with the University of Nottingham through social media and our blogs.
        Campus maps | More contact information | Jobs
 