Cookies on the Trinity College Dublin website
By using this website you consent to the use of cookies in accordance with the Trinity cookie policy.
OK
Trinity College Dublin
Skip to main content.
Your query:
Top Level TCD Links
TCD Home
Faculties & Schools
Courses
Research
Services
Contact
A – Z
Irish School of Ecumenics
Faculties & Schools
Search
Your query:
Go
Breadcrumb
You are here: Home
Site map
Home
About us
+
Postgraduate Taught Programmes
+
International visiting students
+
Academic Staff
School Research
Civic Engagement
Alumni
ISE Trust
News
+
Contact
Sitemap
Dr Andrew Pierce
Assistant Professor, Ecumenics
Head of Discipline
Course Co-ordinator: Semester Abroad Programme
  Contact details
Email: piercean@tcd.ie
Tel: 00353-1-8964782
Andrew Pierce is an Assistant Professor in Ecumenics, Course Co-Ordinator of the M.Phil. in Intercultural Theology & Interreligious Studies and Head Of Department. He obtained a scholarship, First Class Degree with Gold Medal, and Ph.D. in Trinity College Dublin, where he also held the Elrington Post-Doctoral Research Fellowship.  Before his appointment to the Irish School of Ecumenics in 2001, Dr Pierce was Lecturer in Church History and Theology at the Church of Ireland Theological College in Dublin. In 2008-09 he was awarded a Government of Ireland Senior Research Fellowship by IRCHSS in order to further his project, ‘Modernity and Modernism:  Interpreting the Roots of Religious Crisis.’  Also during 2008-09 he was both a visiting Fellow at the J.H.Newman International Study Centre, UCD, where he delivered the 2009 Newman Lecture, and held a visiting fellowship at Christ’s College Cambridge as a Malcolm Bowie Distinguished Visiting Scholar. Since 2009 he has been a consultant to, and member of, the International Anglican Standing Commission on Unity, Faith and Order (IASCUFO). Between 2010 and 2012 he was president of Societas Oecumenica, the European Association for Ecumenical Research.
Areas of expertise
Theological interpretations of place
Nineteenth-century religious thought
Ecumenical ecclesiologies
Ecumenical theologies
Religious fundamentalism
Modules taught
Research and Methods (module co-ordinator)
Authority, Tradition, Experience: Ecumenics as Intercultural Theology
Engaging Religious Fundamentalism
Nature, Grace and the Triune God
Select publications
Peter de Mey, Andrew Pierce and Oliver Schuegraf, Eds, Mission und Einheit: Gemeinsames Zeugnis getrennter Kirchen? / Mission and Unity: Common Witness of Separated Churches, Leipzig: Evangelische Verlaganstalt, 2012.
‘Re-Reading Lumen Gentium and Unitatis Redintegratio,’ Search 36/2 (2013), 84-94.
‘The Modernist Millennium,’ in Joshua Searle and Kenneth G.C.Newport, Eds, Beyond the End: The Future of Millennial Studies, Sheffield: Sheffield Phoenix Press, 2012, 75-93.
‘Ein Imaginaeres in sich entzweit? Anglikanismus und Oekumenismus ad intra et ad extra,’ Oekumenische Rundschau 60/4 (2011), 450-461.
‘Karl Rahner: Theologian of Dialogue and Ecumenism,’ in Pádraig Conway and Fáinche Ryan, Eds, Karl Rahner: Theologian for the Twenty-First Century, Oxford and Bern: Peter Lang, 2010, 171-186.
‘Crossbows, bludgeons and long-range rifles: Tyrrell, Newman and “the intimate connection between methods and their results,”’ in Oliver P.Rafferty, Ed., George Tyrrell and Catholic Modernism, Dublin: Four Courts Press, 2010, 56-75.
Last updated 22 September 2016
by
Irish School of Ecumenics (Email)
.
Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin, College Green, Dublin 2
Central Switchboard: +353 1 896 1000.
Accessibility Privacy Disclaimer Contact