Jump to Main Content
Jump to Navigation
Change Language
viewing site in



School of Music
View complete breadcrumb / People / Rennie REGEHR
Our Professors
Programs of study
Auditions
Research and publications
Contact Us
Rennie REGEHR
E-Card
Rennie REGEHR
Conductor - Orchestra and Visiting Professor
Pérez 424

Office: 613-562-5800 ext. 3812

Work E-mail: rregehr@uOttawa.ca
Biography
As a performer, Rennie Regehr began his professional career with the Winnipeg Symphony Orchestra in 1971. Since that time, his career has taken him throughout Canada and abroad as chamber musician, soloist, recitalist, and orchestral musician. Quickly rising through the ranks at the Winnipeg Symphony, he was appointed Principal Violist in 1978 and concurrently, Principal Violist with the Manitoba Chamber Orchestra, positions he held until 1992.  During his tenure in Winnipeg, Mr. Regehr appeared as soloist with the Winnipeg Symphony, the CBC Radio Orchestra, and the Manitoba Chamber Orchestra. 
In 1992 Mr. Regehr moved to Toronto to become the Dean of the Glenn Gould School of the Royal Conservatory of Music.  In that role he developed an internationally renowned orchestral program, and under his leadership the school produced many of Canada’s finest professional musicians and solo artists.  He continued to be a much sought after chamber musician and recitalist, performing in most major Canadian venues on such series as Music Toronto, Vancouver Chamber Music Festival, The Tuckamore Festival in Newfoundland, Whistler Chamber Music Festival and the Courtenay Summer Music Festival on Vancouver Island.  Internationally, he has been invited to the Winnipesaukee Festival in New Hampshire, Park City Festival in Utah and the Oberlin Summer Festival in Casalmaggiore, Italy.  Highlights of his performance collaborations include artists such as Leon Fleisher, Anthony Elliot, Tsyoshi Tsutsumi, James Campbell, Andrew Dawes, Richard Roberts, Mark Kaplan, Desmond Hoebig, and many of Canada’s leading musicians.  Mr. Regehr’s performances have been broadcast on the CBC Radio networks, National Public Radio in the US and he has also recorded for the CBC Musica Viva and SM5000 labels.  In July of 2006 he collaborated in a highly successful concert with the internationally renowned Shanghai String Quartet.  During this time he has continued his orchestral career as well, performing with the Toronto Symphony, the Canadian Opera Company and the National Arts Centre Orchestra.
Mr. Regehr has also expanded his activities onto orchestral podiums.  He was the resident conductor of the Royal Conservatory Orchestra from 1993-2006.  Other engagements have included guest appearances with the Calgary Youth Orchestra and University of Laurier Orchestra as well as conducting ensembles of the Winnipeg Symphony, the Courtenay Summer Festival Orchestra, and Manitoba Chamber Orchestra.  He was the Artistic Director and Principal Conductor of the Scarborough Philharmonic Orchestra from 2003-2006.  More recently he has conducted the University of Ottawa Orchestra.  In 2004 Mr. Regehr directed the Royal Conservatory Orchestra on a highly successful three week, eleven-concert tour of China.  On that same tour, he conducted the Zhejiang Symphony Orchestra of Hangzhou for two performances of their high-profile New Years Eve concert.  Mr. Regehr was re-engaged with the Zhejiang Orchestra both as soloist and conductor in May 2008 and has been invited to return during their 2009/2010 season.
As a teacher, Mr. Regehr follows a tradition of great Canadian string mentors.  Himself, a student of Gerald Stanick, he continues that level of teaching and has trained some of Canadian’s outstanding violists who have gone on to win positions in major North American orchestras.  He has held teaching engagements at the University of Toronto, the University of British Columbia, and the Royal Conservatory of Music. 
His numerous summer teaching engagements have included Oberlin Summer Academy in Italy, the Domaine Forget Music Academy, and the Courtenay Youth Music Centre.  He is a permanent faculty member of the prestigious Morningside Music Bridge International Training School held in Calgary, Shanghai and Gdansk, Poland in 2009.  He has been a visiting professor at the Shanghai Conservatory, and since 2007 has become a regular guest faculty of the Central Conservatory in Beijing, teaching, and conducting.
In addition to his teaching activities, he has presented masterclasses across Canada and the US, including the Cleveland Institute of Music as well as in China and Hong Kong.
In September of 2006 he became a member of the School of Music at the University of Ottawa and in the summer of 2008, he and his wife, pianist Jenny Regehr, relocated to Ottawa.
In June of 2009 he will join the faculty of the National Arts Centre’s internationally renowned Young Artists Programme.
Fields of Interest
Viola
Back to top
School of Music
Pérez Hall, room 103
50 University
Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5
Map
Tel.: 613-562-5733
Fax: 613-562-5140
music@uOttawa.ca
Office hours
Monday to Friday
8:30 a.m. to 12 p.m.
1 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.
(June to August: closed at 3:30 p.m.)
Students-uoZone
Employees
Jobs
Media
About uOttawa
Contact the University of Ottawa, Canada
A-Z Index
Employee directory
Library
Governance
Visit the University of Ottawa's LinkedIn profile
Visit the University of Ottawa's Twitter profile
Visit the University of Ottawa's Facebook profile
Visit the University of Ottawa's Youtube profile
Visit the University of Ottawa's Tumblr profile
View all of the University of Ottawa's social profiles
Emergency
Accessibility
Find Us