Skip to main content
UC Davis Graduate School of Management
menu






Faculty
Brad M. Barber

Associate Dean / Professor of Finance
Maurice J. and Marcia G. Gallagher Chair in Finance Ph.D., University of Chicago, Booth School of Business
Back to Previous Page
Visit Us
Connect
Apply
Research Expertise: Finance, investments and financial markets, corporate financial policy, market for corporate control, analyst recommendations, and investor behavior
Courses Taught: Financial Theory and Policy,  Investment Analysis and Corporate Financial Policy
Fast Facts
Internationally renowned investor behavior and finance expert whose work offers fresh insights on mutual funds, gender-related overconfidence in stock trading, reliability of stock analysts’ recommendations, and how active trading of equities is “hazardous to your wealth.”
Helps students prepare for global business leadership with opportunities like the center’s fellowships at CalPERS and CalSTRS, the nation’s two largest public pension funds.
Professor Brad Barber is an internationally recognized authority on investor psychology, stock analyst recommendations, online trading and mutual fund performance. His research includes the effect of expenses on money flowing into mutual funds, gender-related overconfidence in stock trading, the impact of coordinated trading by individual investors, and how active equity trading is hazardous to individual investor wealth.
Barber has experience consulting litigation support for financial fraud, antitrust and lost profits cases.
He is often quoted and his research has been covered extensively in the media, including Bloomberg BusinessWeek, Time, Reuters, the Wall Street Journal and the New York Times, and has appeared on ABC News, NBC Nightly News, CNN, MSNBC and CNBC.
Barber is one of the top 50 finance scholars in the world ranked by total citations. He has published groundbreaking research in leading academic journals, including the Journal of Finance, the Journal of Financial Economics, Review of Financial Studies, the Journal of Political Economy, Quarterly Journal of Economics, American Sociological Review, the Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, and the Financial Analyst Journal.
Barber received a Ph.D. in finance and MBA from the University of Chicago, as well as a B.S. in economics from the University of Illinois, Urbana.
Barber teaches courses in investment analysis and corporate financial policy. He is a regular speaker at international academic and industry conferences.
Brad M. Barber Awards
Moskowitz Prize for Socially Responsible Investing, University of California, Berkeley Center for Responsible Business. 2016
Top 50 (Finance) Authors Ranked by Total Citations, “The Relative Significance of Finance Journals, Authors and Articles: An Update,” a study by M. Alderson, A. Saporoschenko and A. Nasseh, Advances in Financial Education, 2009.
Maurice J. and Marcia G. Gallagher Chair in Finance, UC Davis Graduate School of Management, 2008.
Best Conference Paper, European Finance Association, “All that Glitters: The Effect of Attention and News on the Buying Behavior of Individual and Institutional Investors,” (with T. Odean), 2005.
Graham and Dodd Award of Excellence, Chartered Financial Analyst Institute, “Too Many Cooks Spoil the Profits: Investment Club Performance.” Financial Analyst Journal, (with T. Odean), 2000.
Fama-DFA Prize for Best Paper, Journal of Financial Economics, “Detecting Long-Run Abnormal Stock Returns: The Empirical Power and Specification of Test Statistics,” (with J. Lyon), 1997.
All-star Paper, Journal of Financial Economics, “Detecting Abnormal Operating Performance,” (with J. Lyon), 1996.
Teacher of the Year, UC Davis Graduate School of Management; 2004-05, 1998-99, 1996-99, 1991-92.
Outstanding 2nd Year Ph.D. Candidate, University of Chicago, 1987.
RESEARCH ARTICLES (1)IN THE NEWS STORIES (44)RESOURCES (3)
Research
Moskowitz Prize Winners on Why There’s Room for Innovation in Impact Investing

Q&A with Professor Brad Barber and Associate Professor Ayako Yasuda
May 10, 2017 Impact Investing "Supply" Failing to Meet Demand Brad M. Barber Ayako Yasuda Tim Akin By Tim Akin
Read more







RELATED LINKS
Download CV
Research from SSRN
Center for investor welfare and corporate responsibility
Personal website
CONTACT
Gallagher Hall
540 Alumni Lane
Room 3218
View map
(530) 752-0512
(530) 752-2924 Fax
bmbarber@ucdavis.edu
RELATED CONTENT
Finance
About
About Our School
Blog
Contact Us
Upcoming Events
Rankings
Maps and Locations
What’s Trending
News
Terms and Conditions
Programs
MBA – Full-Time
MBA – Part-Time (Bay Area)
MBA – Part-Time (Sacramento)
MPAc – Master of Accountancy
MSBA – Master of Business Analytics
Accounting Minor
Technology Management Minor
Executive Education
Wine Executive Program
Institute for Innovation and Entrepreneurship
People
Current Students
Faculty
Staff
Alumni
Companies & Recruiters
Career Opportunities
Helpful Links
Resources for Faculty
Schedule & Register for Classes (Current Students Only)
Admissions Events
Support (Staff, Faculty, Student)
Make a Gift
Manage your Application
Explore More
UC Davis Graduate School of Management, Davis One Shields Avenue Davis, CA 95616 | (530) 752-7658
Copyright © The Regents of the University of California, Davis campus. All rights reserved.
June 28 Webinar: How to Apply During Rolling Admissions
Register today
AddThis Sharing Sidebar