Go to the U of M home page
Search
GIVE
HEALTH SCIENCES
Institute for Health Informatics
About
History
Education & Training
Research
Events
News
Contact
You are here
Home › About › Faculty & Staff › Scott Moses
Scott Moses, MD
Affiliate Faculty, Institute for Health Informatics
Office Phone 651-717-3400
Mailing Address:
Fairview Clinics - Lino Lakes
7455 Village Drive
Lino Lakes, MN 55014
Biography Page - Fairview Clinics
Affiliate Faculty, Institute for Health Informatics

MD, University of Minnesota
Residency, University of Minnesota
BS, Carleton College
Summary
Scott Moses, MD completed his undergraduate degree at Carleton College and his medical degree and residency at the University of Minnesota. He served as a Navy physician for 4 years, and employed telemedicine during that time. He is a board-certified Family Practice physician seeing patients at the Fairview Lino Lakes Clinic and at the Fairview Lakes Regional Emergency Department. Dr. Moses heads the Fairview Lakes provider inpatient informatics group and is a member of the Fairview Medical Group's enterprise ambulatory and inpatient informatics groups. He has used the Epic EMR since 2005 and has undergone advanced training in Epic tool building.
Since 1998, Dr. Moses has authored the website fpnotebook.com, a reference site for medical providers that sees 1.2 to 1.4 Million pages viewed per month. He has programmed computers since the 1980s, and writes medical applications in C#, WPF, asp.net and sql server. He also works regularly with html, css, javascript and jquery to create both desktop and mobile web applications. Developed applications include expert-system analysis of Epic patient data, emergency resuscitation simulators, content management system development, mobile application development, web bot data acquisition and software leveraging the NIH UMLS database.
READ MORE
Institute for Health Informatics
Visit us:
330 Diehl Hall
505 Essex Street SE
Minneapolis, MN 55455
Find our mailing address
Contact Us
612-626-3348
bmhi@umn.edu
Fax: 612-626-7227
Submit website feedback, report broken links.
Join the IHI
Want to stay connected with the Institute for Health Informatics?
Sign up to join our community.
Connect
Academic Health Center
For Patients
Directory A to Z
Newsroom
Employee Resource Hub
GIVE
For Students, Faculty, and Staff
One Stop
MyU
© 2017 Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights reserved. The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer. Privacy Statement
Report Accessibility Issue