Quick Links
McGill University
Natural Resource Sciences
Faculty of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences
Main navigation
Home
Academic Programs
Research
Graduate student information
Faculty and staff
Available positions
Contact us
McGill.CA / NATURAL RESOURCE SCIENCES / Faculty and staff / Academic staff
Section navigation
Academic staff
Niladri Basu
Elena Bennett
Peter G. Brown
Christopher Buddle
Jeffrey Cardille
Benoît Côté
Brian T. Driscoll
Gary Dunphy
Kyle Elliott
Sébastien P. Faucher
Jim Fyles
Jessica Head
Gordon Hickey
Murray Humphries
Nicolas Kosoy
George McCourt
Ian Strachan
Paul Thomassin
Nicoleta Uzea
Joann Whalen
Terry Wheeler
Lyle Whyte
Kakali Mukhopadhyay
Retirees
Adjuncts and Associates
Non-academic staff
Joann Whalen
Professor; William Dawson Scholar
  T: 514-398-7943  | Email |  Macdonald-Stewart Building, MS2-069  |  Website
Degrees
BSc (Agr) (Dalhousie University)
MSc (McGill University)
PhD (Ohio State University)
Short Bio
Joann K. Whalen is a Professor and William Dawson Scholar at McGill University and an Adjunct Professor with the Northeast Institute of Geography and Agroecology, Chinese Academy of Sciences. She received her Ph.D. from Ohio State University (USA) and worked as a research scientist for Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada prior to joining the faculty at McGill. Dr. Whalen is also a professional agronomist (agronome) in Quebec, Canada. Her research focuses on the soil fertility and soil ecological health of agroecosystems. She has published more than 160 peer-reviewed scientific publications and supervised/co-supervised more than 50 students at the M.Sc. and Ph.D. levels. She teaches courses in soil fertility, nutrient management planning and soil ecology. Dr. Whalen is senior author of the textbook "Soil Ecology and Management" published in 2010 by CABI Publishers and editor of “Soil Fertility Improvement and Integrated Nutrient Management: a Global Perspective”, an open-access e-book published in 2012 that presents 15 invited chapters written by leading soil fertility experts from more than 20 countries. Dr. Whalen was elected President of the Canadian Society of Soil Science in 2016.
Awards and Recognitions
2016-2018. Three-year term as President-Elect, President and Past-President of the Canadian Society of Soil Science.
2011-present. Adjunct Professor, Northeast Institute of Geography and Agroecology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Harbin, China.
2011. Outstanding Associate Editor, Agronomy Journal.
2010-2020. William Dawson Scholar, McGill University.
2010. Research fellowship, OECD Co-operative Research Programme: Biological Resource Management for Sustainable Agricultural Systems. 
2006. Top referee award, Soil Biology and Biochemistry.

Active Affiliations
1. Canadian Journal of Soil Science: Associate Editor (2007-2009), Special Issues Editor (2009-2011), Editor (2012-2014), Guest Editor for Special Issues on “Soil Interfaces for Sustainable Development” and “Greenhouse Gas Emissions: Sources and Sinks in Canadian Agro-Ecosystems” (2015-2017).
2. Agronomy Journal: Associate Editor (2009-2014).
3. Soil Biology and Biochemistry: Subject Editor (2010-2015), Associate Chief Editor (2016), Chief Editor (2017-2020).
4. Frontiers in Agroecology and Land Use Systems: Review Editor (2015-present).
5. Applied Energy: Guest Editor for Special Issue on “Sustainable biofuel production from forestry, agricultural and waste biomass feedstocks” (2016-2017).
Research Interests
Soils support life – they are the medium in which food is grown to feed people and animals. Soil is alive – it is the home to billions of microscopic and macroscopic creatures that form a rich, diverse foodweb with capacity to sustain ecological health. The Soil Ecology group at McGill makes discoveries about the hidden life of the soil, and suggests methods of agricultural management that rely on the natural functions of soil biota to produce food in a manner that is economically sound and environmentally friendly.
Current Research
Our research focuses on how agricultural management practices affect the soil biological, chemical and physical processes that govern nutrient cycles in the soil-plant system. The goal is to identify sustainable agricultural practices, such as those that improve nutrient use efficiency by crops, increase soil carbon pools, reduce N and P leaching from soils, and reduce N2O emissions from soil.
Current Projects
1.  Earthworm-microbial interactions affecting crop production and greenhouse gas emissions from temperate agroecosystems
2. Transforming plant carbon into soil carbon: the role of soil microorganisms and fauna
3. Environmental and economic benefits of temperate tree-based intercropping systems
4. Best management practices for manure management, to optimize the soil nutrient supply and reduce greenhouse gas emissions
5. Ecotoxicity of silver nanoparticles in soils
6. Bioenergy feedstocks for production of next generation biofuels and bioproducts: life cycle assessment and supply chain management
7. Carbon feedstocks for simultaneous energy and biocement production
Courses
SOIL 315 Soil Nutrient Management 3 Credits


SOIL 535 Ecological Soil Management 3 Credits

Publications
View a list of current publications
Department and University Information
Column 1
McGill
myMcGill
Future Students
Student Information
Shuttle bus information
IT Services
MINERVA login
Staff Directory
McGill Campus map
Emergency Measures and Fire Prevention
Column 2
Quick links
Transportation policy
NRS vehicle reservations
Avian Science and Conservation Centre
Lyman Entomological Museum
McGill School of Environment
Morgan Arboretum
Column 3
Macdonald Campus
Faculty of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences
Macdonald Campus map
Documents
Scientific publications
Column 4
Department of Natural Resource Sciences
Macdonald-Stewart Building
21111 Lakeshore Road
Ste. Anne de Bellevue, Quebec
H9X 3V9

Tel.: 514-398-7773
Fax: 514-398-7990
Email: (Information)
Sign in (site maintenance)
Copyright © 2017 McGill University