Skip to main content
Jack Baskin School Of Engineering
TECHNOLOGY FOR A CHANGING WORLD
Navigation
Rebecca M. DuBois
E-Mail Address
rmdubois@ucsc.edu
Title
Assistant Professor, Biomolecular Engineering
Department
Biomolecular Engineering
Telephone Number
831-459-4833 (Office)
831-459-5157 (Lab)
Office Location
Office: Baskin Engineering, Room 259B
Lab: Baskin Engineering, Room 201
Office Hours
Meetings set by email
Mail Stop
SOE2
Biography
Rebecca studies the molecular mechanisms of human virus surface and replication proteins using a diverse toolkit of structural and biochemical techniques. She uses her discoveries to design novel vaccines and antiviral therapeutics. Before joining UCSC, she was a postdoctoral fellow at the Pasteur Institute in Paris, France, and at St. Jude Children's Research Hospital in Memphis, TN. She received her Ph.D. in Biochemistry at UC San Diego and her bachelor's degree from the University of Colorado Boulder.
Research Areas
Protein engineering, structural biology, X-ray crystallography, biochemistry, biophysics, human viruses, vaccines, viral nanoparticles, antiviral drugs
Web Page
https://dubois.soe.ucsc.edu
Selected Publications
Structural, Mechanistic, and Antigenic Characterization of the Human Astrovirus Capsid
Crystal structure of the avian astrovirus capsid spike
Functional and evolutionary insight from the crystal structure of rubella virus protein E1
Structural and biochemical basis for development of influenza virus inhibitors targeting the PA endonuclease
The receptor-binding domain of influenza virus hemagglutinin produced in Escherichia coli folds into its native, immunogenic structure
Degree
Ph.D. in Biochemistry, 2006, University of California San Diego
B.A. in Chemistry, 2000, University of Colorado Boulder
Are you Rebecca M. DuBois? If so, you can update your directory information.
UCSC
This site is maintained by: webmaster@soe.ucsc.edu
UC Santa Cruz, 1156 High Street, Santa Cruz, CA 95064
Copyright © 2017 The Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved.
  Log In