< < Back to homepage
  Lambert Houben

Department Structural Engineering
Road and Railway Engineering
Road Engineering
R: Stevin II 2.27
T: (+31) (0)15 2784917
F: (+31) (0)15 2783443
E:L.J.M.Houben@tudelft.nl
Civil Engineering and Geosciences> About faculty> Departments> Structural Engineering> Sections> Pavement Engineering> People>
Ir. L.J.M. Houben
After graduation in 1978 and military service he joined the Section Road and Railway Engineering as an Assistant Professor, and as such has always been involved in both education and research in Road Engineering.
The education concerns contributions to a number of courses (in the period from 1989 to 2001 also at the IHE in Delft) as well as supervising MSc and PhD thesis projects.
Concerning research, in the eighties and the first half of the nineties, in cooperation with CROW, much attention was paid to small element pavements, a type of pavement that is widely used in the Netherlands. After that emphasis was laid on the structural design and behaviour of concrete pavements and on the behaviour of both (lightly) bound and unbound base materials. Also research has been done by means of the LINTRACK Accelerated Load Facility on various full-scale test pavements, such as rutting research on asphalt pavements for motorways and research into the performance of 4 innovative modular pavement structures that were developed within the framework of the project “Roads to the Future” of the Dutch Ministry of Transport, Public Works and Water Management. 
 Education
He is involved in a number of courses Road Engineering, both in the BSc curriculum and in the MSc curriculum.
In the BSc curriculum these are the courses CT3041 ‘Geometric and structural design of roads and railways’ and the following course CT3711 ‘Exercise geometric and structural design of roads and railways’.
Within the MSc specialization Road and Railway Engineering he contributes to the courses CT4830 ‘Laboratory experiments on road building materials’, CT4850 ‘Materials for road construction’, CT4860 ‘Structural pavement design’ and CT5850 ‘Construction of roads’.
Besides he is supervising students with their BSc and MSc thesis project and some PhD students in their research into (cement-bound) base materials.
Since 2004 he is the graduation coördinator for the variant Structural Engineering.
 Research
In the First years after 2000 research has been done with the LINTRACK-facility into the bearing capacity of 4 modular pavement structures. The 2 structures that survived this (and other) research meanwhile have actually been applied ons ome motorway sections in the Netherlands.
Within a CROW research a contribution has been given to the new version of the Dutch design method for concrete pavements. Recent measurement data concerning axle loadings and temperature gradients in practice were taken into account. The method is not only valid for plain (unreinforced) concrete pavements but also for continuously reinforced concrete pavements that are applied on motorways because of the porous asphalt wearing course. 
Recently a research has been done into the cause of transversal heaves that occur on pavements with a hydraulic blast furnace slags base. This research included unevenness and bearing capacity measurements, laboratory research and the development of an analytical model for the mathematical description of the birth and growth f such heaves.
 Publications
Houben, L.J.M. (2008).
Possible solutions for the heaves on the asphalt pavement with blast furnace slags base on the A32 (km 29.7 – km 39.0) in Friesland – Final Report (in Dutch). Report 7-08-160-5, Section Road and Railway Engineering, Delft University of Technology, January 2008.
Houben, L.J.M., A.J. van Leest, M.J.A. Stet, J.W. Frénay and C.R. Braam (2007).
The Dutch Structural Design Method for Plain and Continuously Reinforced Concrete Pavements. Proceedings of the International Workshop on Best practices for Concrete Pavements, Recife, Brazil, October 21st – 23rd, 2007.
Houben, L.J.M., S. Poot, M. Huurman and J. van der Kooij (2006).
Developments on the Modieslab innovative concrete pavement concept. Proceedings 10th International Symposium on Concrete Roads, Brussels, 18-22 September 2006.
Houben, L.J.M., C.R. Braam, A.J. van Leest, M.J.A. Stet, J.W. Frénay and G.Chr. Bouquet (2006).
Backgrounds of VENCON2.0 software for the structural design of plain and continuously reinforced concrete pavements. Proceedings 6th International DUT-Workshop on Fundamental Modelling of Design and Performance of Concrete Pavements, Priorij Corsendonk, Old-Turnhout, Belgium, September 15-16, 2006.
Houben, L.J.M. and S. Molenaar (2005).
Triaxial testing of Askøy granular aggregate. Report 7-05-201-30, Laboratory for Road and Railway Research, Delft University of Technology, June 2005.
Name author: Kumar Anupam
Direct to:
Alumni
Employee portal
Student portal
Vacancies
Contact
TU Delft library
BrowseAloud
Disclaimer
© 2017 TU Delft
Study
Research
Cooperation
Current
About faculty
https://intranet.tudelft.nl/
subject
employee
Student portal
Employee portal
Nederlands
Contact
1
2
3
4
About the faculty
About the faculty
About the faculty
Deze site maakt gebruik van cookies klik hier voor meer informatie
Sluit