Tolga Tozum
phone
312-996-0265
location
UIC College of Dentistry
801 S. Paulina St
469G
Chicago
IL
60612
email
ttozum@uic.edu
website
UICollaboratory Profile
Tolga
Tozum
DDS, PhD
Associate Professor
Department:
Periodontics
Research Focus: Regenerative Science
Periodontal Disease
Dental Implants
Oral Microbiology
Wound Healing
Biographic Summary
Dr. Tozum graduated from Gazi University, Faculty of Dentistry, Turkey with the Top Student Award in 1998. He completed his integrated post-graduate clinical education in periodontics specialty and Ph.D. training about bone metabolism at Hacettepe University, Turkey and University of Michigan, Ann Arbor between 1998 and 2002. He has been teaching, researching and practicing about advanced periodontics and implant dentistry since 2002, and affiliated as full-professor of periodontics and associate dean of dentistry at Hacettepe University. He has been appointed as an associate professor at University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC) since 2014.
He received three international awards in implant dentistry, including Travel Award at International Association for Dental Research Continental European Division Meeting in 2004; Platinum Award at 24th World Congress-International Congress of Oral Implantologists in 2006; The Best Article published at ACTA Odontologica Scandinavia in 2009 related to bone grafting. He is a fellow and is also a member of research grant, web site education and newsletter committees of Academy of Osseointegration (AO), fellow of International Congress of Oral Implantologists (ICOI), diplomate and honorary member of Meffert Implant Institute, active member of European Federation of Periodontology, Turkish Associations of Periodontology and Oral Implantology.
He has been invited to more than 50 national/international scientific meetings as an invited or keynote speaker, has published 6 book chapters, over 100 scientific manuscripts and 75 presentations related to advanced periodontics and implant dentistry. He has also been serving as an editorial board member of 20 leading journals, such as Clinical Oral Implants Research, Clinical Implant Dentistry and Related Research, Implant Dentistry, The Journal of Implant and Advanced Clinical Dentistry, Journal of Contemporary Dental Practice (Associate Editor), Journal of Oral & Maxillofacial Research. Dr. Tozum’s manuscripts are globally cited 883 times (h-index: 17) at Thomson Reuters (Science Citation Index), 1179 times (h-index: 20) at Scopus, and 2067 times (h-index: 24) at Google Scholar by May 2016. He has also built an international scientific clinical research group focused on cone beam tomography imaging including Spain, Lithuania, Turkey, Cyprus, S. Arabia and U.S.A (UIC and University of Michigan).
Clinical Activities And Specialties
He is currently supervising post-graduate periodontics clinic, conducting clinical implant related research (implant stability, cone beam computed tomography, micro-tomography, histomorphometry, immediate/early loading of implants and soft/hard tissue augmentations) and taking care of patients at faculty specialty practice at UIC related to periodontics and dental implants.
Research Interests
Dr. Tozum's research is focused on implant dentistry, including implant stability—resonance frequency and analysis, damping capacity assessment, and insertion torque values; marginal bone loss and gain around implants; and peri-implant crevicular fluid evaluation (nitric oxide, myeloperoxidase, ICTP, and osteocalcin) for the long term.
His clinical research includes  implant stability, cone beam computed tomography, micro-tomography, histomorphometry, immediate/early loading of implants and soft/hard tissue augmentations.
Publications
Aksu AE, Dursun E, Calis M, Ersu B, Safak T, Tozum TF. Intraoral use of extraoral implants for oral rehabilition of a pediatric patient after resection of ewing sarcoma of the mandible and reconstruction with iliac osseocutaneous free flap. J Craniofac Surg. 2014: 23 (5): 930-933.
Topcu Ali O, Alev AF, Sahbazoglu KB, Yamalik N, Kilinc K, Karabulut E, Tozum TF. Nitrite and nitrate levels of gingival crevicular fluid and saliva in subjects with gingivitis and chronic periodontitis. J Oral Maxillofac Res. 2014: 5 (2): e5.
Ozgul O, Dursun E, Ozgul BM, Kartal Y, Coskunses FM, Kocyigit ID, Tozum TF. The impact of handicap severity on oral and periodontal status of patients with mental retardation. J Contemp Dent Pract. 2014: 15 (2): 218-222.
Ramanauskaite A, Baseviciene N, Wang HL, Tozum TF. Effect of history of periodontitis on implant success: meta-analysis and systematic review. Implant Dent 2014: 23 (6): 687-696.
Dursun E, Tulunoglu I, Ozbek SM, Uysal S, Akalın FA, Kilinc K, Karabulut E, Tozum TF. The influence of platform switching on clinical, laboratory, and image-based measures: a prospective clinical study. Clin Implant Dent Relat Res 2014: 16 (6): 936-946.
Buyukozdemir Askin S, Aksu AE, Calıs M, Tulunoglu I, Safak T, Tozum TF. Multidisciplinary treatment of an extensive mandibular ameloblastoma with free iliac crest bone flap, dental implants and acellular dermal matrix graft. J Oral Implantol. 2015: 41 (1): 107-111.
Kutlu HB, Genc T, Tozum TF. Treatment of apical refractory peri-implantitis: a case report. J Oral Implantol 2016; 42 (1): 104-109.
Dursun E, Kanli C, Eratalay K, Orhan K, Celik HH, Tozum TF. Do porous titanium granule grafts affect bone micro-architecture at augmented maxillary sinus sites? A pilot split-mouth human study. Implant Dent. 2015: 24 (4): 424-433.
Turkyilmaz I, Tozum TF. 30-year outcomes of dental implants supporting fixed dental prostheses: a case series. Implant Dent. 2015: 24 (5): 620-624.
Monje A, Galindo-Moreno P, Tozum TF, del Amo SL, Wang HL. Into the paradigm of implant position as an etiologic factor for peri-implant disease: short communication. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2016: 31 (2): 288-292.
Dursun CK, Dursun E, Eratalay K, Orhan K, Tatar I, Baris E, Tozum TF. Effect of porous titanium granules on bone regeneration and primary stability in maxillary sinus: a human clinical, histomorphometric and micro-computed tomography analyses. J Oral & Maxillofac Surg 2016: 27 (2): 391-397.
Dursun E, Keceli HG, Uysal S, Gungor H, Muhtarogullari M, Tozum TF. Management of limited vertical bone height in the posterior mandible: Short dental implants versus nerve lateralization. J Oral & Maxillofac Surg 2016: March 16 E-pub.
Kubilius M, Kubilis R, Varinauskas V, Zalinkevicius R, Tozum TF, Juodzbalys G. Descriptive study of mandibular canal visibility: morphometric and densitometric analysis for digital panoramic radiographs. Dentomaxillofac Radiol 2016: May 11 E-pub.
Ramanauskaite A, Juodzbalys G, Tozum TF. What is apical/retrograde peri-implantitis /implant periapical lesion? A systematic review about etiology, risk factors and treatment options. Implant Dent 2016: In Press.
The University of Illinois at Chicago College of Dentistry is a worldwide leader in oral health education, clinical care and research that is patient-centered and evidence-based, with a foundation in preventive and public health sciences. We are a part of UI Health.
CONTACT
801 S. Paulina St.
Chicago, IL 60612
Location & Directions
UIC
Privacy Statement
Accessibility
UIC.edu
Notice of Non-Discrimination
RESOURCES
College Calendar
News & Media
Intranet
Human Resources
IT Services
UIC Outlook
UIC Directory
Site Map
          Copyright © 2016 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois