Home
About CDMC
Join and Contact Us
Our Team
Projects
Publications and Papers
Social Media
Welcome!
Welcome to the Children’s Digital Media Center. We are a consortium of scholars located at Georgetown University, University of Massachusetts at Amherst, University of California at Riverside, Northwestern University, and Cornell University. We are dedicated to understanding how digital media influence children’s development. Primarily through funds from the National Science Foundation, we conduct research, train […]
Welcome!
Welcome to the Children’s Digital Media Center. We are a consortium of scholars located at Geo
Video Exercise Helps Overweight, Obese Teenagers Lose Weight
The first study demonstrating weight loss from video games that require physical activity has been p
Toddlers Learn Early Math Skill from Elmo
In a recent study conducted at the Children’s Digital Media Center, Dr. Calvert, Alexis R. Lau
  Welcome!
Welcome to the Children’s Digital Media Center. We are a consortium of scholars located at Georgetown University, University of Massachusetts at Amherst, University of California at Riverside, Northwestern University, and Cornell University. We are dedicated to understanding how digital media influence children’s development.
Primarily through funds from the National Science Foundation, we conduct research, train researchers, and disseminate information to policymakers and businesses about children and digital media in order to create a quality children’s media environment. Some of our current projects are described below. Please feel free to explore this website to see even more of the work going on at the Children’s Digital Media Center and join us in making this vision a reality. If you are a parent interested in participating in future studies at the CDMC, please click the “Join Us” link on the menu bar at the top of this page and fill out the contact information form found there.
    Sandra Calvert, Professor of Psychology
Director, Children’s Digital Media Center
Check out our Facebook page!
Comments Off on Welcome!
← Previous Entries
Copyright ©2003-2015 Children’s Digital Media Center.
University of Massachusetts Amherst | University of California at Riverside | University of Texas, Austin
Cornell University | Northwestern University
Funded by the National Science Foundation, the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation,
and the Stuart Family Foundation.