Our Guidance
Educational Offerings
Events
Blog & News
About Us
Support the Center
Home » People » Carol McLaughlin
Carol McLaughlin
Senior Advisor, Global Public Health
carolmc@sp2.upenn.edu
Carol A. McLaughlin is senior advisor for global public health and founding team member at the Center for High Impact Philanthropy, as well as Adjunct Faculty of the School of Social Policy & Practice (SP2) in the University of Pennsylvania. She is a public health specialist and primary care/infectious disease physician with experience in research, community engagement, and program implementation in the U.S. and the developing world.
She has been involved with a diverse variety of health projects including community-based interventions in Latin America, clinical programs in Thailand and Vietnam, public health work addressing resistance in cholera and malaria, and HIV care and treatment.
After dual residency training in internal medicine and pediatrics through the Harvard Combined Program, Carol completed a fellowship in infectious disease at Penn and earned a Diploma in Tropical Medicine and Hygiene from the Gorgas Memorial Institute in Peru. She obtained training in epidemiology and community-based research through a Master in Clinical Epidemiology program at the University of Pennsylvania.
She received MD and MPH degrees from the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine and School of Public Health. She graduated Magna Cum Laude from Princeton University’s Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, with a BA in Public and International Policy.
Additional Penn affiliations:
Director – Global Health Equities Track, internal medicine residency
Co-director – Global Health Track, Master of Public Health (MPH) program
Assistant Professor of Clinical Medicine, Division of Infectious Diseases, Perelman School of Medicine
Attending physician, HIV/Infectious Disease, Penn Presbyterian Medical Center.
Senior fellow, Center for Public Health Initiatives
  The Center for High Impact Philanthropy
3815 Walnut Street
Philadelphia, PA 19104-6179 (Map)
impact@sp2.upenn.edu | 215.573-7266
Copyright © 2017 Center for High Impact Philanthropy – University of Pennsylvania