Skip to main content
About HGSE
Master's Programs
Doctoral Programs
Professional Education
Faculty & Research
Faculty & Research
Faculty Directory
Centers, Projects and Initiatives
Faculty Recruitment
Faculty Experts
Admissions
News & Events
More
Apply to HGSE
Connect
Recruit
Give
Directory
My GSE Login
Calendar
Gutman Library
Information for:
Prospective Students
Current Students
Harvard College Students
Alumni


Robert B. Schwartz
Senior Research Fellow
DEGREE:  M.A., Brandeis University, (1962)
EMAIL:  robert_schwartz@gse.harvard.edu
PHONE:  617.496.6303
PERSONAL SITE:   Link to Site
VITAE/CV:   Robert B. Schwartz.pdf
OFFICE:  Gutman 417
OFFICE HOURS CONTACT:  Email the Faculty Member
FACULTY ASSISTANT:  Ryan Noll
Profile
Robert Schwartz is Professor Emeritus of Practice in Educational Policy and Administration. He held a wide variety of leadership positions in education and government before joining the HGSE faculty in 1996. From 1997 to 2002, Schwartz also served as president of Achieve, Inc., an independent, bipartisan, nonprofit organization created by governors and corporate leaders to help states improve their schools. From 1990 to 1996, Schwartz directed the education grantmaking program of The Pew Charitable Trusts, one of the nation's largest private philanthropies. In addition to his work at HGSE, Achieve, and The Pew Charitable Trusts, Schwartz has been a high school English teacher and principal; an education adviser to the mayor of Boston and the governor of Massachusetts; an assistant director of the National Institute of Education; a special assistant to the president of the University of Massachusetts; and executive director of The Boston Compact, a public-private partnership designed to improve access to higher education and employment for urban high school graduates. Schwartz has written and spoken widely on topics such as standards-based reform, public-private partnerships, and the transition from high school to adulthood. In recent years Schwartz has contributed to three volumes published by Harvard Education Press: Teaching Talent(2010), Surpassing Shanghai(2011), and The Futures of School Reform (2012). He currently co-leads the Pathways to Prosperity Network, a collaboration among a group of states, HGSE, and Jobs for the Future designed to ensure that many more young people graduate high school, attain an initial postsecondary degree or credential with value in the labor market, and get launched on a career while leaving open the possibility of further education.
Areas of Expertise
Sponsored Projects














































Associations
News Stories
Learn to Change the World
The Campaign for Harvard Graduate School of Education enables HGSE to fulfill its vision of changing the world through education by expanding opportunity and improving outcomes.
Learn More
  13 Appian Way Cambridge, MA 02138
Contact Us
Feedback
Maps and Directions
Virtual Tour
Admissions
Email Admissions
Harvard University Home
Store
Site Map
© 2016 President and Fellows of Harvard College
Questions or comments about this page? Send an email to the Web Editor. Read the HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers. Trademark Notice. Privacy Policy.
 