RSS
Facebook
Twitter
Home
Future Students
Current Students
Alumni
Community
Faculty & Staff
IT
HR
MY U OF C
CONTACTS
Faculty of Law
Faculty members and academics
HOME
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
CURRENT STUDENTS
FACULTY
RESEARCH
ALUMNI & DONORS
Full-Time Faculty
Judge in Residence
Emeriti & Retirees
Adjuncts & Sessionals
Chairs
Honorary Professors
Students Legal Assistance
Teaching and Service Awards
Rudiger Tscherning
Assistant Professor
+1 (403) 220-2062
Murray Fraser Hall 3348
rudiger.tscherning@ucalgary.ca
Bar Admissions
Called to the Law Society of England and Wales (2007)
Biography
Rudiger joined the Faculty of Law in July 2016. He is a Ph.D. candidate at the Institute for Comparative Law, Conflict of Laws and International Business Law at the University of Heidelberg, where his doctoral research examines dispute resolution mechanisms in international energy infrastructure projects. Rudiger is a former research fellow of the Faculty's Canadian Institute of Resources Law (CIRL).

Prior to his time at the University of Heidelberg, Rudiger was the founding Executive Director of the Center for Energy and Sustainability Law at Qatar University College of Law, where he also was a Lecturer of Law teaching on energy and sustainability law. Before joining academia, Rudiger practiced as a solicitor in London, England where his litigation practice focused on the environmental and planning law aspects of energy and infrastructure project delivery.

During his time in Qatar, he acted as legal consultant to the World Bank and the Ministry of Environment of the State of Qatar. While in the Middle East, he initiated the first regional academic conference on renewable energy and nuclear law and policy, a program on post-conflict natural resources development, and a series of professional legal education courses with the AIPN Middle East Chapter and faculty from the University of Houston Law Center.
Professor Tscherning has secured generous funding from the Rocky Mountain Mineral Law Foundation (RMMLF) for the preparation of teaching materials for his Conflict of Laws course. The funding is to support the development of practical case studies and problems on private international law issues as they arise in the energy and natural resources industry. The materials focus on cross-border and international energy projects in the mining, oil and gas, LNG-chain, natural resources transportation, electricity generation and electricity transmission fields.
Rudiger is a member of the Faculty’s Mooting Committee and the Faculty advisor for the Philip C. Jessup International Law Moot Court Competition.
Teaching
Law 403: Legislation
Law 509: Business Associations
Law 613: Conflict of Laws
Research/Scholarly Activities
Rudiger researches in the areas of international and comparative energy and natural resources law and policy, international commercial law, construction law and dispute resolution mechanisms. He also has a special interest in international civil procedure and the conflict of laws, international nuclear law and policy, post-conflict natural resources law development and international investment treaty law.
Research Areas
International and comparative energy and natural resources law and policy
International commercial law
Construction law
Dispute resolution mechanisms
Publications
Publications
ABlawg postings
Degrees
LLM - Climate Change and Energy Law and Policy
The Centre for Energy, Petroleum and Mineral Law and Policy, University of Dundee, 2011
LLM - International Commercial Law
University of Nottingham, 2003
LLB
Trinity College Dublin, 2002
Quick Links
Admissions
Canadian Institute of Resources Law
Career & Professional Development Office
Student Legal Assistance
Bennett Jones Law Library
Contacts
University of Calgary
2500 University Dr. NW
Calgary, Alberta, Canada
T2N 1N4
Copyright © 2017
Privacy Policy
About the University
At a Glance
Identity & Standards
Campus Maps
Hotel Alma
Careers at the University
Events at the University
Academics
Departments & Programs
Undergraduate Studies
Graduate Studies
International Studies
Continuing Studies
Libraries at the University
Campus Life
Go Dinos!
Residence
Active Living
Bookstore
Graduate Students' Association
Students' Union
Media & Publications
News
Media Centre
U Today
U This Week
U Magazine
University Calendar