  University of Pittsburgh
PITT HOME
DIETRICH SCHOOL
FIND PEOPLE
Theatre Arts
About
Current Season
Undergraduate
Graduate
Production Archives
People
Home ›
Michelle Granshaw - Assistant Professor
CONTACT
mkg31@pitt.edu
412-624-6467
CL 1601B
Education
PhD, University of Washington
Biography
Michelle Granshaw received her PhD in Theatre History, Theory, and Criticism from the University of Washington. Her research interests include American and Irish theatre and popular entertainment, diaspora and global performance histories, performance and the working class, and historiography.  
  At the University of Pittsburgh, she teaches in the BA, MA, and PhD programs. She is the undergraduate advisor for History, Literature, and Criticism and affiliate faculty with the Global Studies Center, the European Union Center of Excellence/European Studies Center, Gender, Sexuality, and Women Studies Program, and Cultural Studies.

Dr. Granshaw’s articles have appeared in Theatre Survey, Nineteenth Century Theatre and Film, Journal of American Drama and Theatre, Theatre Topics, and the New England Theatre Journal. She has a forthcoming plate in the Atlas of Boston History: The Making of a City. She has written almost twenty encyclopedia articles for BlackPast.org.  In 2014, Dr. Granshaw was awarded the American Theatre and Drama Society Vera Mowry Roberts Award for Research and Publication for her Theatre Survey (January 2014) article “The Mysterious Victory of the Newsboys: The Grand Duke Theatre’s 1874 Challenge to the Theatre Licensing Law.”
Her book manuscript is a study of the Irish-American working class and popular entertainment in nineteenth century New York. Dr. Granshaw won the 2013 Hibernian Research Award from the Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism at the University of Notre Dame, 2014 American Theatre and Drama Society Faculty Travel Award, and 2016-2017 Harry Ransom Center Research Fellowship in the Humanities in support of her book project. 
In October 2015, Dr. Granshaw organized the Spectacles of Labor: Performance and the Working Class symposium at the University of Pittsburgh, which was supported by the Humanities Center, Provost’s Year of the Humanities, Center on Race and Social Problems, Departments of Theatre Arts, English, and History of Art and Architecture, and the 2015 Co-Sponsored Event Award from the American Society for Theatre Research. Attended by faculty from across the country, students, and Pittsburgh union leaders and community members, the symposium approached questions about labor and performance from an interdisciplinary perspective and examined critical questions about the ways that spectacles of labor function as sites of negotiation, revolution, and containment.
Dr. Granshaw has presented her research at the American Society for Theatre Research, Association for Theatre in Higher Education, American Society for Eighteenth Century Studies, McNeil Center for Early American Studies, and Mid-America Theatre Conference. She serves on committees for the American Theatre and Drama Society and the American Society for Theatre Research and is a co-chair of the Theatre History Symposium at the Mid-America Theatre Conference for 2016 and 2017.
Dr. Granshaw also works as a dramaturg. She has served on a variety of productions, including August Wilson’s Piano Lesson and Adolphe d’Ennery’s The Two Orphans. In Spring 2015, she served as the dramaturg for the UPitt Stages production of The Curse of the Starving Class. 
Dr. Granshaw will be on leave during Spring 2017.
    University of Pittsburgh
School of Arts and Sciences
Department of Theatre Arts
1617 Cathedral of Learning
4200 Fifth Avenue
Pittsburgh, PA 15260
Contact
Box Office: 412-624-7529
Department Office: 412-624-6568
Fax: 412-624-6338
Theatre Rentals
Email the Department
Purchase Tickets
Purchase tickets online or call our box office 412-624-7529
Performance Spaces
Stephen Foster Memorial
Studio Theatre
Driving and Parking
Driving Directions
Department of Theatre Arts
Theatre Box Office
Parking at Pitt
Newsletter Sign-up
Copyright 2011 | Site by UMC Web team
LOADING...