    ABOUT ME RESEARCH PUBLICATIONS TEACHING SERVICE
    Joseph P. Messina Ph.D.
    Associate Professor of Geography, Member of the Center for Global Change and Earth Observations, Member of AgBioResearch, Member of the Center for Latin American and Caribbean and Studies, Member of the African Studies Center, Member of the Ecology, Evolutionary Biology, and Behavior Program at Michigan State University. Awarded research honors from NASA through the New Investigator Program, the National Institutes of Health Roadmap Program, and the Sigma Xi / MSU Young Scholar of the Year. Member of the editorial board for the International Journal of Applied Geospatial Research. Co-edited special issues in Photogrammetric Engineering and Remote Sensing, Environment and Planning A, and Environment and Planning B. Served on the Organizing committees for Geocomputation, and the International Medical Geography Symposium. Served on the EPA panel establishing a national program on behavioral and social science research and the environment. Served on national review panels for the National Institutes of Health (NIGMS, NIEHS, NIAID); the National Science Foundation’s Cyber Enabled Discovery and Innovation and the Decision Making Under Uncertainty programs; NASA’s Terra, Aqua, and ACRIM and the LCLUC programs; EPA’s Advanced Monitoring Initiative. Served in leadership roles or on select committees for the Association of American Geographers, the remote sensing specialty group of the Association of American Geographers, and the American Society for Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing. Geography Awareness Week Plenary Speaker at multiple universities. Honorable Discharge, United States Army.
Research Emphases
General Areas: Population-Environment Interactions, Medical Geography, Geographic Information Science, Remote Sensing, Spatial Analyses, and Land Change Science
•Population-Environment Interactions: The integration of people, spaces, and the environment are considered through the lens of dynamic models and complex systems. Related research activities have taken place in Kenya, Thailand, China, Ecuador and Colombia.
•Medical Geography: Infectious diseases and health care delivery are key research activities. Health care delivery focuses on the access to care in Michigan. Health and disease research has focused on malaria and African Trypanosomiasis in Kenya.
•Geographic Methods: Landscape patterns metrics, error and uncertainty, dynamic spatial simulation models, complex systems research.
ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR
Michigan State University
Center for Global Change and Earth Observations
Department of Geography
AgBioResearch

CONTACT INFORMATION
218 Manly Miles Bldg.
1405 S. Harrison Rd.
Michigan State University
East Lansing, MI 48823

206 Geography
Michigan State University
East lansing, MI 48824

517-353-1715 (phone)
517-353-2932 (fax)
jpm@msu.edu
   