Jump to navigation
Enter your keywords
Secondary Menu
Log in
Aaron French
Graduate Student in the Study of Religion
Teaching Assistant in Religious Studies
Email: ajfrench@ucdavis.edu
Office:
907 Sproul
Adviser(s): Allison Coudert
Education and Degree(s):
B.A. in Religious Studies, Minors in Classics and English, University of Arizona
Research Interest(s):
New Religious Movements
Alternative Spiritualities
Western Esotericism
Classical Christianity and Greek Mystery Religions
Western Reception of Eastern Religious Thought
The History of Science
Teaching Experience:
Teaching Assistant at U of A: RELI 336, Spirituality, Psychology, and the Mind, Winter 2014
Teaching Assistant at U of A: RELI 326, God, Humanity & Science, Spring 2015
Profile:
Aaron J. French received his B.A. in Religious Studies from the University of Arizona in June of 2015. While studying at the U of A, he developed an interest in Western Esotericism as well as in the formation of New Religious Movements (NRMs), which prompted him to seek further academic training in the field of Religious Studies. At UC Davis, his graduate-level research focuses on the breakdown of old religions and the formation of new, alternative religions (or amalgamations thereof) in the 19th and 20th centuries, in Europe and the United States. Specifically the years 1830-1920, during which the Theosophical Society was founded (1875), introducing a commingled doctrine of Eastern spirituality and pseudo-science, and culminating in what Joscelyn Godwin calls the “Theosophical Enlightenment.”
In addition to his academic work, Aaron is a writer and editor in the speculative fiction genre. His nonfiction essays on Thomas Ligotti, Alejandro Jodorowsky, Karl Edward Wagner, and Transhumanism have appeared in Dark Discoveries magazine, where he is the Editor-in-Chief. His online column “Letters from the Edge,” focusing on the occult, spirituality, esotericism, and speculative fiction, is featured on the Nameless Digest website. He has also edited several genre-fiction anthologies.
His academic paper “Toward Christian Renewal,” which explores potential contributions of esoteric Christianity within mainstream Christianity, was published in 2013 by the peer-reviewed independent journal The Esoteric Quarterly and was presented at the WR AAR conference in Santa Clara, CA for the History of Christianity panel. He is currently a member of the ESSWE, the European Society for the Study of Western Esotericism, and the American Academy of Religion (AAR).
Selected Publications:
“Esoteric Roots of Christianity,” American Academy of Religions Western Region Conference, History of Christianity, March 2015.
“Journeys of Soul in the Afterlife: Egyptian Books of the Afterlife and Greek Orphic Mysteries,” The Esoteric Quarterly, Vol 10, No 4. Winter, Washington, DC 2014.
“Toward Christian Renewal,” The Esoteric Quarterly, Vol 9, No 3. Fall, Washington, DC.
Honors and Awards:
Study of Religion First-Year Fellowship, 2015-16
Ora Bretall Scholarship in Humanities, 2014
“Spirit of Inquiry” Honors College Scholarship, 2014
“Why Humanities Matter” Scholarship, 2013
ABOUT
PEOPLE
UNDERGRADUATE
GRADUATE
COURSES
STUDY ABROAD
CONTACT US
GIVING
EVENTS AND MEDIA
Religious Studies "Shorts" Videos
Learn more about Fall Quarter classes and get to know your RST faculty with the Religious Studies "Shorts"!
Read More...



Spotlight on Religious Studies
The Department of Religious Studies has released a letter in response to a spate of anti-Muslim hate crimes occurring in Davis and the surrounding area.
Read More...
Contact Us
Main Office:
Sproul Hall
Room 213
(530) 752-1219
Religious Studies News
The Religious Studies Department Announces Winners of Fifth Annual Writing Prize for Best Undergraduate Paper Competition
Alex Ditzel and Donald Pinckney were awarded the 2017 Writing Prize for Best Undergraduate Paper for their work "A Quantitative Analysis of Schacht's Hadith Backgrowth Theory." The paper was written for the Winter Quarter 2017 course, Religious Studies 130: "Hadith Literature, Social Networks, Computational Analysis," taught by Professor Mairaj Syed. To learn more about the award and to read the winning paper, please continue to the article.
First Undergraduate Religious Studies Conference Draws Students and Scholars From Around the State
The Undergraduate Religious Studies Conference is coming up on May 20th. Please view a news item about the conference from the College of Letters and Sciences here (the RST conference is the second news item on the page).
Film Series Featuring Indian Independent Documentary Cinema at the Mondavi Center
Beginning Monday, April 17th at 7:00pm, the Mondavi Center will host a 6-week long festival of Indian documentary cinema. The film series is titled Persistence Resistence and is curated by Fulbright Scholar in Residence, Gargi Sen. Persistence Resistence began in 2008 in New Dehli and for almost a decade has examined what happens when art becomes linked to the politics of subversion and resistance. Please read the article to learn more.
Professor Mairaj Syed Awarded Network Collaboration Fellowship by Davis Humanities Institute
Professor Syed has been awarded the DHI-Network Collaboration Fellowship which supports faculty seeking to collaborate with colleagues outside of the UC system. He will apply his grant towards the dating and analysis of the second sacred source of Islamic thought after the Quran, hadith texts, along with colleagues from UCLA and MIT. Please read the article for further information about this unique and groundbreaking project.
Department of Religious Studies Professor Naomi Janowitz and Students Comment on Ramifications of Travel Ban
With the passing of Assembly Bill 1887, effective January 1st 2017, a ban was placed on the use of public funds to travel to states that "allow discrimination against same-sex couples or their families or on the basis of sexual orientation, gender identity, or gender expression.” The states identified as offenders are North Carolina, Mississippi, Tennessee and Kansas. This has had ramifications on both academic and sporting pursuits. Professor Naomi Janowitz and two students of the Department of Religious Studies affected by the ruling are quoted in the Los Angeles Times. Please click here to view the Los Angeles Times article (at latimes.com).
UC Davis Receives $1.5 Million to Advance the Study of Jainism
This generous gift from Mohini Jain of Davis will establish the Mohini Jain Presidential Chair for Jain Studies in the Department of Religious Studies. Please view the article to learn more!
Professor Eva Mroczek awarded the Manfred Lautenschlaeger Award for Theological Promise
Professor Eva Mroczek's book, The Literary Imagination in Jewish Antiquity (Oxford University Press, 2016), has been awarded the "Manfred Lautenschlaeger Award for Theologian Promise" by the University of Heidelberg's Forschungszentrum für Internationale und Interdisziplinäre Theologie FIIT (Research Center for International and Interdisciplinary Theology). Please read the article for more information about this esteemed honor.
Undergraduate Research Conference - "Sites of Religious Practice" - May 20-21, 2017
On Saturday, May 20th and Sunday, May 21st, the Department of Religious Studies will be hosting its first Undergraduate Research Conference titled "Sites of Religious Practice." The conference will feature a keynote lecture by bestselling author and Dartmouth professor, Jeffrey Sharlet. See ugcreligions.ucdavis.edu for complete schedule. 
Read all news...
Delights and Deliria
Copyright © The Regents of the University of California, Davis campus. All rights reserved.
Webmaster