SKIP NAVIGATION     INTRANET LOGIN
SDSU Graduate School of Public Health
San Diego, California
search
About
»
Admissions
Programs
»
Student Resources
»
People
»
Research
Labs
In the Community
You are here: Home / People / Tracy Finlayson
Tracy Finlayson
Tracy Finlayson
Division of Health Management and Policy
Associate Professor
Phone: (619) 594-0559
Office: HT 156
Email: tfinlays@mail.sdsu.edu
Download CV (pdf)
Education
PhD, Health Services, Organization and Policy, University of Michigan (2005)
BS, Human Development, University of California, Davis (2000)
Scholarly Areas
Oral health, mental health, health policy/program evaluation, social determinants of health and health disparities, access to care, maternal and child health, U.S. healthcare system
Biography
Dr. Tracy L. Finlayson is an Assistant Professor in the Division of Health Management and Policy. She is an interdisciplinary health services researcher with training in Sociology/Social Psychology. Her main areas of research are exploring the psychosocial determinants of oral health disparities and issues around access to dental care. Her research often integrates quantitative and qualitative methods when possible. She is also especially interested in health policy.
Dr. Finlayson has been involved in evaluations of major state-level policy changes in Michigan and California, and previously interned at the Head Start Bureau. Prior to joining SDSU, she was an Agency for Healthcare Research & Quality (AHRQ) Postdoctoral Scholar at UC Berkeley. In 2008, Dr. Finlayson received the Jay S. Drotman Memorial Award from the American Public Health Association (APHA), which recognizes the promising career of a young public health professional.
Publications
For an up to date publications list see Google Scholar.
loading video intro
loading...

Graduate School of Public Health
Hardy Tower rm 119
5500 Campanile Drive
San Diego, CA 92182-4162 (see map)

phone: (619) 594-6317
fax: (619) 594-6112

Return to top of page
download Adobe Acrobat Reader   |   download Word Viewer