ACU (Australian Catholic University)
Skip to content Staff directory Careers at ACU A-Z Maps Contact us
Search the ACU website
REXR
ACU
Home Current students Staff Library
ABOUT ACU
STUDY AT ACU
STUDENT EXPERIENCE
INTERNATIONAL
RESEARCH
ALUMNI AND GIVING
Professor Leonard Unsworth - Faculty of Education & Arts (Faculty of Education and Arts)
Fully accredited supervisor
Len Unsworth is now Professor in Education at the Australian Catholic University in Sydney. In recent years he has held professorial posts at Griffith University, and the University of New England, and was formerly Head of the School of Development and Learning in the Faculty of Education and Social Work at the University of Sydney. Len has been a chief investigator on six Australian Research Council funded Discovery and Linkage projects since 2005, which have included work on image-language relations in picture books, the nature and role of images in large-scale reading comprehension tests, students⿿ multimodal authoring using animation software, a ⿿good enough⿿ grammatics for English teaching in primary and secondary schools, and pedagogies for cumulative learning in twenty first century schools. Len⿿s publications include Literacy learning and teaching (Macmillan, 1993), Researching language in schools and communities (Continuum, 2000), Teaching multiliteracies across the curriculum (Open University Press, 2001), [with Angela Thomas, Alyson Simpson and Jenny Asha] Teaching children⿿s literature with Information and Communication Technologies (McGraw-Hill/Open University Press 2005), e-literature for children and classroom literacy learning (Routledge, 2006), New Literacies and the English Curriculum (Continuum, 2008), Multimodal Semiotics (Continuum, 2008) and, with Clare Painter and Jim Martin, Reading Visual Narratives (Equinox,2013).
Contact
: 2738 (North Sydney)
: Len.Unsworth@acu.edu.au
:
Staff Directory Profile
Research Interests
English Education ; Multiliteracies ; Visual Literacy ; Children's Literature ; Systemic Functional Linguistics and Literacy ;
Methods Expertise
qualitative methods ; linguistic and semiotic analyses ; Case studies ; qualitative and mixed methods ;
Research Projects
Completed Projects
THE DEPLOYMENT OF THE LANGUAGE OF EVALUATION IN ENGLISH AND VIETNAMESE SPOKEN DISCOURSE - Thu Ngo (PhD) (Principal Supervisor)
Teaching and Learning Functional Grammar in Junior Primary Classrooms - Ruth French (PhD) (Principal Supervisor)
Aboriginal and rural students⿿ comprehension and talk about image-language relations in reading tests- Ann Daly (PhD) (Principal Supervisor)
Selected Publications
2014
Music, multiliteracies and Multimodality: Exploring the book and movie versions of Shaun Tan⿿s "The Lost Thing" , in Australian Journal of Language and Literacy, 37 (1), 3-20.
Point of view in picture books and animated film adaptations: Informing critical multimodal comprehension and composition pedagogy. , in E. Djonov & S. Zhao (Eds.), Critical multimodal studies of popular culture. London: Routledge. (pp201-216)
Interfacing Visual and Verbal Narrative Art in Paper and Digital Media: Recontextualizing Literature and Literacies. , in G. Barton (Ed.), Literacy in the Arts: Retheorising Learning and Teaching (pp. 55 - 76). Cham, Heidelberg, New York, Dordrecht, London: Springer. (pp. 55 ⿿ 76)
Multimodal Reading Comprehension: Curriculum Expectations and Large-scale Literacy Testing Practices, in Pedagogies: An International Journal, 9, 26-44.
2013
Reading Visual Narratives: Image analysis of children's picture books
Other information
RECENT AUSTRALIAN RESEARCH COUNCIL FUNDED PROJECTS:

2013-2015 $360,241 Australian Research Council (ARC) Discovery Grant Maton, K.
Martin, J.R. Unsworth, L. Howard, S. Pedagogies for knowledge-building: investigating subject-appropriate, cumulative teaching for twenty-first century school classrooms

2011- 2013 $449951 Australian Research Council (ARC) Discovery Grant Macken-Horarik, M
Unsworth, L. Love, K. Grammar and praxis: investigating a grammatics for twenty first century school English

2009-2012 $139,321 Australian Research Council (ARC) Linkage Grant Bittman, M.
Rutherford, L.Unsworth, L. ⿿Digital Natives⿿: Growing up with new and old media in
Australia

2008-2011 $195,000 Australian Research Council (ARC) Linkage Grant L. Unsworth
A. Thomas Teaching effective 3D authoring in the middle school years: Multimedia grammatical design and multimedia authoring pedagogy.

2006-2008 $192,764 Australian Research Council (ARC) Linkage Grant
L.Unsworth + NSW Dept of Ed & Training New Dimensions of Group Literacy Tests for Schools: Multimodal reading comprehension in conventional and computer-based formats

2005-2007 $180,000 Australian Research Council (ARC) Discovery Grant L.Unsworth
J.R. Martin C. Painter Image/text relations in narrative and information texts for children in print and electronic media: Multimodal text description for multiliteracies education.
RexR
Home
Search
About RexR
Login
About ACU
Mission and profile
Our campuses
Faculties, Institutes, Schools and Centres
Research
Community engagement
Giving to ACU
Careers at ACU
Publications
University Scholarships
Contact us
Information for...
Future undergraduate students
Future postgraduate students
Non Year 12
TAFE students
First Peoples
International students
ACU Executive Education
Parents' information
Career Advisors
Suppliers and tenders
Employers and community
Registered training organisations
Alumni (ACU graduates)
Student Connect
Courses
Undergraduate
Postgraduate
Research degrees
Other courses
ACUcom – VET
Scholarships and financial aid
Apply to ACU
Faculties
Law and Business
Education and Arts
Health Sciences
Theology and Philosophy
Institutes and centres
Accessibility | Disclaimer | Privacy Policy | Emergency & Safety
Copyright © Australian Catholic University 1998-2016.
ABN 15 050 192 660 CRICOS Reg: 00004G