Skip to main content
Home | Contact us | Staff | Students | MyExeter (Staff) | iExeter (Students) | Site map | 中文网
StudyingResearchBusiness and communityWorking hereAlumni and supportersOur departmentsVisiting usAbout us
Home > Our departments > College of Humanities > English > Staff profiles > Profile > Professor Angelique Richardson
English
About us
News
Prospective undergraduates
Prospective postgraduates
Our research
Staff profiles
Royal Literary Fund Fellows
Events
Contact us
Current students
Staff Intranet
Our social media channels
English
Professor Angelique Richardson
Overview
Research
Publications
External engagement and impact
Research supervision
Teaching
Professor Angelique Richardson
Associate Professor
Email:
Extension: 4354
Telephone: 01392 724354
Latest book  After Darwin: Animals, Emotions, and the Mind  see review by George Levine, George Eliot Review.  Lated journal issue: Special Issue of Literature Compass on Global Hardy.  New chapter 'Who Was the New Woman?',  in Laura Marcus, Michèle Mendelssohn, and Kirsten Shepherd-Barr, Late Victorian into Modern, 1880-1920 (Oxford University Press, 2016).
Interview on the BBC Radio 4 Today programme (1st May 2015) on Hardy's Wessex and regional identity; recent Times Literary Supplement reviews on Victorian science and poetry, Darwin's prose and Hardy's letters.
See recent blog entry on Hardy's politics.
Angelique Richardson is Associate Professor of English at the University of Exeter.  She has a BA in English Language and Literature from the University of Oxford, and an MA and PhD from Birkbeck, University of London.  She welcomes enquiries and proposals from prospective PhD students on all aspects of nineteenth- and early twentieth-century literature and culture, including literature and science;  nineteenth-century prose, poetry and fiction, including Darwin, George Eliot and Hardy, and the New Woman; on animals studies; archives; and digital humanities. As sole or co-supervisor she has supervised 17 PhD students to successful completion and she currently supervises several projects ranging from eugenics in utopian fiction to South West writers and Hardy and the cultre of letter writing (Collaborative Doctoral Award funded by the AHRC). From September 2017 she will be supervising two AHRC-funded South, West and Wales Doctoral Training Partnership PhD students.
Based in the Department of English, Richardson is also a staff member of the Centre for Victorian Studies; the Centre for Literature and Archives; the Centre for Medical History, on whose Advisory Board she sits; and a Research Associate of Egenis.  She  has published widely on nineteenth-century science, literature and culture, and has additional research interests in museums, archives and digital humanities. She is committed to public engagement in both her teaching and research and is Public Engagement Officer for University English; over the last five years she has been developing collaborations with local government, museums and the National Trust and she is also a member of the Steering Group of Hardy Country, and leader of Hardy Country's education strategy. 
Richardson's monograph Love and Eugenics in the Late Nineteenth century made a major intervention both in the history of medicine and literary studies, revealing the extent to which eugenic ideas permeated Victorian and early twentieth-century culture, and After Darwin: Animals, Emotions, and the Mind brings together scholars from biology, literature, history, psychology, psychiatry and paediatrics. She is the editor or co-editor of nine collections or special journal issues. Her forthcoming monograph Thomas Hardy and the Politics of Biology: Character, Culture and Environment (Oxford University Press) brings her expertise in Victorian science to her research on Hardy. Richardson is Associate Editor-in-Chief of the peer-reviewed Forum for World Literature Studies, sponsored by Shanghai Normal University, Purdue University and the Wuhan Institute for Humanities; 19: Interdisciplinary Studies in the Long Nineteenth Century;  the Hardy Review and the Thomas Hardy Journal, and she is literary editor of the Proceedings of the Dorset Natural History and Archaeological Society.
          Using our site | Freedom of Information | Data Protection | Copyright & disclaimer | Privacy & Cookies | 