Skip to main content
Department of Cell Biology and Human Anatomy
UC Davis Health | News | Jobs | Giving | UC Davis
About Us
Research
Teaching
Our Team
Newsroom
Seminars & Events
Map & Directions
Contact Us
Jobs
UC Davis HealthSchool of MedicineCell Biology and Human Anatomy Faculty
Paul Knoepfler, Ph.D.

Professor
633A Shriners Hospital
Sacramento Campus
916-453-2289
e-mail
Research Interests
Publications
Honors and Awards
WHAT CONTROLS STEM AND CANCER CELL BIOLOGICAL BEHAVIOR?
We are analyzing how the pluripotency control machinery goes awry during cancer. Our lab studies the molecular programming of embryonic and neural stem cells as well as cancer stem cells. We are studying the genomic and epigenomic events that inflence pluripotency and tumorigenicity. We are particularly interested in pediatric nervous system tumors, but also glioblastoma.
For more information please visit the Knoepfler lab homepage at: http://www.chromatin.com/
Research Funding
Recent/Current Teaching
Graduate Group Affiliations
Additional Links
Graduate Group Affiliations
Student Research Opportunities
For Faculty, Staff and Students
Electron Microscopy Laboratory
Congratulations
Thomas Glaser, M.D., Ph.D., Professor, was appointed to the National Advisory Eye Council of the National Eye Institute (NEI). Read more about this article »
  Douglas S. Gross, M.D., Ph.D., Senior Lecturer, has been named as the recipient of the 2016 Emil Mrak Award from the Cal Aggie Alumni Association. Read more about this award (pdf).
  Paul Knoepfler, Ph.D., Professor, was recently featured on the PBS Nightly News hour, interviewed by Jennifer Doudna, by Gwen Ifil. This interview can be viewed at the following links. PBS NewsHour, YouTube.
  Kenneth A. Beck, Ph.D., Lecturer, is a recipient of the Gubernaculum Award from the first year medical school class.
  Tom Blankenship, Ph.D., Senior Lecturer, is a co-recipient of the Gubernaculum Award from the First Year Med Students.
  Richard Tucker, Ph.D., Professor, recently received both the UC Davis Academic Senate Distinguished Teaching Award, and the School of Medicine's Kaiser Award for Excellence in the Teaching of Basic Science to medical students.
  Jan Nolta, Ph.D., Director of the UC Davis Stem Cell Program and its Institute for Regenerative Cures along with many other center experts recently received $53 Million in funding for the application of stem cells to the treatment of several different human diseases.
Welcome New Departmental Faculty
Basic Science Departments in the School of Medicine
Biochemistry and Molecular Medicine
Cell Biology and Human Anatomy
Medical Microbiology and Immunology
Pharmacology
Physiology and Membrane Biology
Public Health Sciences
Quick Links
Our faculty
Our staff
Major research programs
Our teaching focus
Connect with Us
Stay connected with what’s happening at UC Davis Health and School of Medicine.
  Back to top
DEPARTMENT OF CELL BIOLOGY AND HUMAN ANATOMY
4303 Tupper Hall  |  Davis, CA 95616  |  Phone: 530-752-4328
© 2017 UC Regents. All Rights Reserved  |  Legal  |  Jobs  |  Contact Us
AddThis Sharing Sidebar
Share to Facebook
, Number of shares
Share to Twitter
Share to Google+
Share to LinkedIn
, Number of shares
Share to Pinterest
, Number of shares
Share to Email
More AddThis Share options
, Number of shares
47