Skip to content
Skip to links
Français
Search the University of Ottawa Web site
Search uOttawa.ca
uoZone
Library
Directories
Maps
Courses
Faculty of Medicine
Department of Radiology
Division of Abdominal Imaging & Abdominal MRI
Print this page
Choose a font size
Small
Medium
Large
Fellowships
Staff
Contact Information
Barbara Wilson
Diagnostic Imaging
The Ottawa Hospital
General Campus
Room S2, Box 232
501 Smyth Road
Ottawa, Ontario
K1H 8L6 Canada
Tel: 613-737-8571
Fax: 613-737-8830
bawilson@toh.on.ca
Staff
Dr. C. Brennan, General Campus
Dr. G. Doherty, Civic Campus
Dr. Shauna Duigenan, Civic Campus
Dr. N. Fasih, General Campus
Dr. A. Formoso, Civic Campus
Dr. M. Fraser, General Campus
Dr. I. Hammond, General Campus
Dr. R. Hibbert, Civic Campus
Dr. S. Kelly, Civic Campus
Dr. A. Kielar, Civic Campus
Dr. J. Lau, Civic Campus
Dr. F. Lee, Riverside Campus
Dr. B. Lewandowski, Civic Campus
Dr. B. MacDonald, General Campus
Dr. L. Mendell, Riverside Campus
Dr. M. McInnes, Civic Campus
Dr. J. O Sullivan, General Campus
Dr. D. Papadatos, Civic Campus
Dr. M. Quon, Civic Campus
Dr. G. Ritchie, Civic Campus
Dr. J. Ryan, Civic Campus
Dr. A. Scott-Moncrieff, General Campus
Dr. W. Shabana, General Campus
Dr. N. Scheida, Civic Campus
Dr. Karl Smyth, General Campus
Dr. H. Tao, Civic Campus
Dr. R. Verma, Civic Campus
Dr. C. Walsh, General Campus
Biography: Abdominal Imaging
Dr. G. Doherty, Civic Campus
Academic Highlights:
Resident and Fellow Supervisor in Abdominal and Breast Imaging
Medical School and Resident Lecturer
Journal Club Supervisor
Research Interests:
CT Colonography and Education
MRI Imaging Applications
Training:
Fellowship: Cross-Sectional Imaging, Department of Diagnostic Radiology at St. Michael's Hospital; Toronto, ON; 2006-2007
Residency: University of Ottawa; Ottawa, ON; 2001-2006
Medical School: University of Ottawa; Ottawa, ON; 1999-2001
Medical School: University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB; 1997-1999
Master's of Science (Pharmacology): University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB; 1995-1997
Bachelor of Science (Medicine): University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB; 1997-1999
Bachelor of Arts and Science (Honours Biochemistry): McMaster University, Hamilton, ON; 1990-1994.
Return to Table of Contents
Dr. S. Duigenan, Civic Campus
Return to Table of Contents
Dr. M. Fraser, General Campus
Dr. Margaret Ann Fraser is a clinician-teacher radiologist in the Department of Medical Imaging, Body Imaging and Emergency Radiology sections, instructing at the undergraduate, residency, fellowship and postgraduate levels. Her main academic interests are:
The Ottawa Hospital, Minimally Invasive Gynecology Program of the Shirley E. Greenberg Women’s Health Center. Dr. Fraser provides expert imaging diagnosis, preoperative planning and pelvic pain mapping of endometriosis and benign gynecological disorders, for the women in Champlain LHIN.
The University of Ottawa, Department of Medical Imaging, CT Colonography program. Dr. Fraser conducts a comprehensive multi-disciplinary clinical quality assurance, education and research program providing accessible, expert, appropriate care for the people of Champlain LHIN.
The University of Ottawa, Faculty of Medicine, Equity, Diversity & Gender Issues Office. Dr. Fraser chairs the Committee for Equity, Diversity, Gender & Wellness in Medical Imaging, upholding the highest standards of ethical and professional behavior and equal opportunity, recognizing diversity, gender and wellness in professional excellence.
The University of Ottawa, Faculty of Medicine, Admissions Committee.
Return to Table of Contents
Dr. Ian Hammond, General Campus
Professor of Radiology, University of Ottawa
MD, CM 1972, McGill University
FRCPC 1976, Royal Victoria Hospital, Montreal
Past Chairman, Department of Radiology, University of Ottawa (1991-99)
President, Canadian Radiological Foundation
Past President, Canadian Association of Radiologists (CAR) 2001-03
Board member, Ontario Association of Radiologists
Current practice in general/community based radiology with emphasis on abdominal ultrasound
Special interest in patient related issues in radiological practice
Hammond DI, Lentle BC, Odell, PF. The pursuit of impalpable thyroid nodules: are we using scarce resources wisely? CARJ 2010; 61:98-101.
Hammond I, Schweitzer ME. A resource allocation metric for thyroid biopsies. J Am Coll Radiol 2011;9: 49-52.
Virmani V, Hammond I. Sonographic patterns of benign thyroid nodules: verification at our institution. AJR 2011; 196: 891-895.
Return to Table of Contents
Dr. R. Hibbert, Civic Campus
Return to Table of Contents
Dr. S. Kelly, Civic Campus
Return to Table of Contents
Dr. Ania Kielar, Civic Campus
Ania Kielar is a radiologist at The Ottawa Hospital and the Director of the Division of Abdominal and Pelvic Imaging. Her other administrative duties include organizing the Resident Mentorship Program in the radiology department in Ottawa and being a member of the Research Ethics Board at the Royal Victoria Hospital in Barrie, Ontario. She was the Director of the Visiting Professor Program at the University of Ottawa and Ottawa Gatineau Hospital from January 2009 until September 2010.
Education:
Dr. Kielar completed her medical school and radiology residency training at the University of Ottawa. She went to the University of Michigan for her fellowship in abdominal cross-sectional imaging in 2005-2006 in Ann Arbor, Michigan.
Interests:
Dr. Kielar is involved in medical student, resident and fellow training as well as post-fellowship teaching with regular educational activities with learners at all levels. She was co-director of the Cross-Sectional Body CME held in May 2010 and is co-director for the upcoming CME course entitled “Cross-Sectional Gynecologic and Obstetric Imaging: the Requisites and Beyond” which will take place in Ottawa in October, 2011. She is also a grant recipient and graduate of the American Roentgen Ray Society, Clinician Educator Development Program, and will serve as a junior faculty for this program in 2011. Dr. Kielar is a reviewer for international peer reviewed journals including European Radiology and Journal of Computer Assisted Tomography. She has published approximately 15 peer reviewed articles and presented over 20 posters and oral presentations at national and international meetings. Her areas of research interest include oncologic imaging, radiofrequency ablation and imaging of the small bowel.
Appointments & Affiliations:
Active Staff, Department of Radiology, The Ottawa Hospital
Active Staff, Imaging Services, The Royal Victoria Hospital, Barrie, Ontario
Director of Abdominal and Pelvic Imaging, The Ottawa Hospital
Assistant Professor, University of Ottawa
Return to Table of Contents
Dr. F. Lee, Riverside Campus
Return to Table of Contents
Dr. B. MacDonald, General Campus
Staff Radiologist, Abdominal and Pelvic Imaging
Assistant Professor, Department of Diagnostic Imaging
University of Ottawa
Academic Highlights:
Resident and Fellow Supervisor in Abdominal Imaging
Residency Training Committee Member
Research Supervisor
Medical School and Resident Lecturer
Journal Club Coordinator
Research Interests:
Diagnostic Imaging Test Performance
Evidence-Based Imaging and the Epidemiology of Disease
Training:
Fellowship: Abdominal Imaging, University of Toronto; 2003-2004
Residency: Memorial University of Newfoundland; St. John's, NL; 1998-2003
Diploma Clinical Epidemiology: Memorial University of Newfoundland; 1998-2003
Medical School: Queen’s University, Kingston, ON; 1994-1998
Bachelor Science (Honors Biochemistry): Queen’s University, Kingston, ON; 1990-1994
The Ottawa Hospital - General Campus
501 Smyth Road
Department of Diagnostic Imaging
Ottawa, ON; Canada
K1H 8L6
Tel: 613-737-8899 ext. 73249
Fax: 613-737-8957
Email: blmacdonald@toh.on.ca
Return to Table of Contents
Dr. L. Mendell, Riverside Campus
Return to Table of Contents
Dr. M. McInnes, Civic Campus
Dr. McInnes completed his radiology training at the University of Toronto in 2006, followed by a 1 year clinical fellowship at the University Health Network at the University of Toronto in Abdominal Imaging. He is an Associate Professor at the University of Ottawa and is currently the Diagnostic Radiology Residency Program Director. He works as a Radiologist in the divisions of Abdominal and Chest radiology in the Department of Medical Imaging at the Ottawa Hospital and is a Clinical Investigator in the OHRI Clinical Epidemiology program.
Dr. McInnes' current areas of research interest are:
Systematic review and meta-analysis
Genitourinary imaging.
Dr. McInnes is Deputy Editor for the 'Journal of Magnetic Resonance Imaging' and is an Associate Editor for 'Radiology'.
Publication list
For information regarding the University of Ottawa Residency Program.
Return to Table of Contents
Dr. J. O. Sullivan, General Campus
Return to Table of Contents
Dr. D. Papadatos, Civic Campus
Return to Table of Contents
Dr. G. Ritchie, Civic Campus
Dr. Ritchie was born and raised in Galt (now Cambridge), Ontario. He graduated from University of Toronto Medical School in 1983.  In 1084, he did a mixed internship at Toronto General Hospital, and in 1988, he completed his residency in Diagnostic Radiology at McGill University. He concluded his training with a Clinical Fellowship in Body Imaging and Interventional Radiology at Montreal General Hospital 1989. He practiced as a General Radiologist at St. Catharine’s General Hospital from 1989 - 2001. Dr. Ritchie has been practicing as a Body Imager at The Ottawa Hospital, with ongoing involvement in general and community-based radiology since 2001.
Return to Table of Contents
Dr. J. Ryan, Civic Campus
Dr. John Ryan earned a Bachelor of Science (Biology) from Dalhousie University in 1985 before receiving his Doctor of Medicine 1989.  He trained as a resident at McGill University at Montreal General Hospital in the department of Family Medicine.
Dr. Ryan held various staff physician positions before completing his residency training at the University of Ottawa, in The Ottawa Hospital’s Department of Diagnostic Imaging in 2007.  In 2008, he concluded his postgraduate education with a Body Imaging and Ultrasound Fellowship at the Mallinckrodt Institute of Radiology in St. Louis, Missouri.
Dr. Ryan joined the Department of Diagnostic Imaging in the summer of 2008 and is actively involved in resident teaching and education.
Professional Associations:
CPSO
OMA
CMPA
Radiology Society of North America
Canadian Association of Radiologists
AUR
Return to Table of Contents
Dr. W. Shabana, MBBCH, MD, MSc, PhD, General Campus
He was born in Algeria, did all his undergrad education in Egypt, he finished the first medical school (MBBCH) in Egypt 1997. Two years after his graduation, he gained Master in Medical sciences from the Free University of Brussels, (VUB) Belgium. He had the second medical school in Belgium from the VUB with distinguishing degree (EU equivalent MD degree). He did his residency in the university hospitals of VUB (UZ- VUB), thereafter he became a certified radiologist in Belgium (EU equivalent degree) in 2006.
During his residency, he worked on PhD from the VUB, where he gained it at shortly before the end of his residency. He did a fellowship in abdominal imaging and cross imaging intervention in University of Michigan -Ann Arbor. He joined as a staff in U. Mich- Ann Arbor for a short period before he joined University of Ottawa as assistant professor in department of diagnostic imaging since Nov. 2007.
He always gratefully remembers many of his mentors (alphabetically) Dr. R. Bude, Dr. R. Cohen, Dr M. De Maeseneer, Dr. H. Hussain, Dr. M. Osteaux, Dr. J. Platt, Dr. J. Rubin and Dr. T. Stadnik.
He has interest in applied clinical research as well both under and post graduate education and education quality.
Return to Table of Contents
Dr. N. Scheida, Civic Campus
Return to Table of Contents
Dr. K. Smyth, Civic Campus
Return to Table of Contents
Dr. C. Walsh, General Campus
Return to Table of Contents
System Requirements
Feedback
on this Web site
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
© University of Ottawa
For additional information, consult our list of contacts
Technical questions? webmaster@uottawa.ca