Cookies help us to give you the best experience on our website. You can change your cookie settings if you wish. Otherwise we'll assume you're OK to continue.OKSee our policy
UK
China
Malaysia
MAIN MENU
     School of Mathematical Sciences
MENU
       Student Intranet Staff Intranet
  Luis A. Correa
Research Fellow, Faculty of Science
Download to vCard
Back to the Staff Directory
Personal Details
Research
Publications
Contact
Room B22 Mathematical Sciences
University Park
Nottingham
NG7 2RD
UK
+44(0)115 95 67912
Luis.Correa@nottingham.ac.uk
http://luisacorrea.weebly.com/
Biography
I grew up and studied in the island of Tenerife (Spain). In 2009 y graduated in physics at the University of La Laguna and, during my masters I specialized in the theory of open quantum systems, with special emphasis on systems far from equilibrium. In 2014 I received my PhD title from the University of La Laguna and under the supervision of Prof. Daniel Alonso. My thesis was on quantum thermodynamics and, in particular, performance optimization of nano-scale cooling systems. Between 2014 and 2015 I was a postdoc in Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, in Prof. Anna Sanpera's group. I am currently a research assistant in the Quantum Correlations Group of the School of Mathematical Sciences of the University of Nottingham, under the direction of Prof. Gerardo Adesso. In these years my research has pivoted between quantum thermal engineering, quantum thermometry and, more recently, the study of the thermodynamic aspects of quantum control theory.
Expertise Summary
Open quantum systems
Quantum thermodynamics
Quantum correlations
Quantum metrology/thermometry
Quantum control theory
Research Summary
I currently work in quantum thermodynamics, with special emphasis in the design optimization of nanoscale thermodynamic cycles for quantum technologies. I also work in quantum metrology and in… read more
Recent Publications
LIUZZO-SCORPO, PIETRO, CORREA, LUIS A., SCHMIDT, REBECCA and ADESSO, GERARDO, 2016. Thermodynamics of Quantum Feedback Cooling ENTROPY. 18(2),
PALAO, JOSÉ P, CORREA, LUIS A, ADESSO, GERARDO and ALONSO, DANIEL, 2016. Efficiency of inefficient endoreversible thermal machines Brazilian Journal of Physics. 1-6
CORREA, LUIS A. and MEHBOUDI, MOHAMMAD, 2016. Testing a quantum heat pump with a two-level spin Entropy. 18(4), 141
NICHOLS, ROSANNA, BROMLEY, THOMAS R., CORREA, LUIS A. and ADESSO, GERARDO, 2016. Practical quantum metrology in noisy environments Phys. Rev. A. 94, 042101
View all publications
School of Mathematical Sciences
The University of Nottingham
University Park
Nottingham, NG7 2RD
For all enquiries please visit:
www.nottingham.ac.uk/enquire
Legal information
Copyright
Terms and conditions
Privacy
Posting rules
Accessibility
Freedom of information
Charity gateway
Cookie policy
Get social
Connect with the University of Nottingham through social media and our blogs.
        Campus maps | More contact information | Jobs
 