Skip to main content
University of Michigan School of Social Work
Audience menu
Prospective Students
Current Students
Faculty
Alumni
Search form
Enter the terms you wish to search for.
Submit search!
Contact My SSW
Main menu
About
Admissions
Programs
Research
Student Life
Directories
Give
Directories
Directories
Faculty
Tenure-Track Faculty
Clinical & Research Faculty
Field Educators
LEO Lecturers
Emeritus Faculty
You are here
Home   /   Directories   /   Faculty
Rona Carter
Assistant Professor of Psychology and Adjunct Assistant Professor of Social Work
Professor Carter studies associations between pubertal development and patterns of adjustment (psychological, behavioral, and health), with particular attention to how pubertal processes, social-cultural contextual factors (family, peers, teachers, romantic partners), and wider social systems (culture, ethnicity) interact to contribute to girls’ adjustment problems from late childhood to young adulthood. Within the above context, her work focuses on three interrelated lines of research:
1. Racial and cultural contextual factors that influence pubertal processes
2. Social-cultural contextual factors and wider social systems that promote or hinder adjustment
3. Measurement development and evaluation as it relates to race, ethnicity, and gender.
She draws upon both secondary data analysis and original data collection. Her research has importance for understanding the relational and social contexts of girls’ development and health outcomes such as how girls negotiate aspects of their interpersonal relationships (family, peers, teachers, and romantic partners) when making their sexual decisions. Guiding her research are the central tenets of social development theory which emphasize that individual development occurs within a social and cultural context, which itself develops, and furthermore, perpetually interacts with the developing individual.
Contact Information
Phone Fax Email Room Address
(734) 647-3887 ronac@umich.edu 2243 EH University of Michigan
LSA, Dept of Psychology
530 Church St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
Education
Year Degree   School
2009 PhD Applied Life Span Developmental Psychology Florida International University, Miami, FL
2005 MS Developmental Psychology Florida International University, Miami, FL
2001 BA Psychology Florida International University, Miami, FL
The SSW advantage
The School of Social Work leads the profession in teaching, research, innovation, collaboration and service.
Connect with us
We're Social!
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
LinkedIn
Flikr
Issuu
Visit SSW
We invite all prospective students to visit the School of Social Work to meet our students, faculty, and staff.
We're excited for you to experience the School of Social Work, U-M campus, and beautiful Ann Arbor.
Schedule a visit »
© 2016 The Regents of the University of MichiganNon-discrimination PolicyPrivacy PolicyU-M HomeContact & Building HoursEmployment