Skip to Main Content
Penn State
College of the Liberal Arts
JEWISH STUDIES PROGRAM
Make a Gift
Funding
HOME
ABOUT US
UNDERGRADUATE
PEOPLE
RESOURCES
NEWS AND EVENTS
People
HOME / PEOPLE / WILLA Z SILVERMAN
Willa Z Silverman
Malvin E. and Lea P. Bank Professor of French and Jewish Studies
315 Burrowes Building
Email: wzs1@psu.edu
Office Phone: (814) 863-9660
Websites
http://www.willazsilverman.com/
Education
Ph.D., New York University, French Studies, 1988
M.A.., New York University, French Studies, 1983
B.A., Harvard University, History and Literature, 1981
Biography
My research focuses on the social and cultural history of France from approximately 1880 to 1914. My first book, The Notorious Life of Gyp: Right-Wing Anarchist in Fin-de-Siècle France, relies on biography as a privileged genre for research in interdisciplinary French Studies. Through an examination of the life of the prolific popular novelist, anti-Semitic propagandist, and salonnière, Gyp, I attempted to elucidate many of the social and political tensions in fin-de-siècle France. My discovery of a trove of correspondence between Gyp and her publishers led me to a new teaching and research field, book history and print culture studies. In my second book, The New Bibliopolis: French Book Collectors and the Culture of Print, 1880-1914, I take my work in book history in the direction of esthetics. Taking as a point of departure the cult-like love of luxury books by a new cadre of upper-bourgeois bibliophiles during a uniquely artistic (and materialistic) era, I analyze subjects as diverse as the relationship between book collecting and esthetic and cultural currents such as Symbolism, dandyism, and Art Nouveau; the gendered nature of book collecting; and the increased collaboration between authors and illustrators. My current book project is an edition of the unpublished private diaries of Henri Vever, a prominent Art Nouveau jeweler, Asian art collector, and Parisian man about town. I aim to reestablish Vever as an important figure in his own right and to rely on his life as a prism through which to view the myriad topics it illuminates in the history of the turn of the century: daily and private life; the 1900 Paris World's Fair; the milieu of Asian art collectors; reactions of private citizens to contemporary events such as the Dreyfus Affair.
Recent Courses
J ST/FR 197: France and the Holocaust in Film and Literature
Research and Teaching Interests
Jews in Modern Europe and America:
Jewish Languages and Literatures:
Holocaust and Genocide:
GENERAL CONTACT INFORMATION
Penn State Jewish Studies Program
103 Weaver Building
University Park, PA 16801
814-863-8939 | jstd@psu.edu
INDIVIDUAL CONTACTS
Director: Ben Schreier
Undergraduate Officer: Alan Benjamin
Undergraduate Advising: Ben Whitesall
220 Weaver Building
CONNECT WITH US
  Copyright ©2017, The Pennsylvania State University | Privacy and Legal Statements
Contact the Site Administrator | Last modified Aug 18, 2015 | Powered by Plone
Log in