College of Health and Human Sciences
Skip to main content
Students
Faculty & Staff
Research & Engagement
Field Education
Alumni & Friends
Faculty and Staff Directory
Liz Davis, MSW
Associate Director of Field Education
Contact information
Education 25
1586 Campus Delivery
Fort Collins, CO 80523-1586
(970) 491-3433
liz.davis@colostate.edu
Areas of Interest
School social work, mental health, disabilities, organizations, communities, policy.
Bio
Liz Davis started her career in the field of social work in the Boston area in 1999. However ten years prior to receiving her MSW, Liz was working in school systems north of Boston supporting students with disabilities with the North Shore Special Education Consortium. After an internship with a day treatment program and macro community-based internship in Boston, Liz decided to remain in the Boston community and was employed as a social worker in Early Intervention within community mental health. After another position with a local day treatment facility, a family job change took Liz to Colorado. In 2001, Liz joined the local community mental health center in Fort Collins as a therapist, then spent the next five years at Thompson School District in Loveland, Colorado. There Liz was the Disabilities Coordinator for the preschool program, then moved on as the Autism Coordinator for the and the School Social Worker for middle and high schools. During this time Liz became involved with the NASW Colorado chapter as their Northern Board representative and was involved with the Colorado School Social Work Association of which she continues to support. Over a span of about a decade Liz was a Field Instructor for numerous Colorado State University MSW students and provided Field Instructor support for the University of Denver. After Thompson School District, Liz spent six years at Poudre School District in Fort Collins, CO. There she had the opportunity to help develop a School Social Work community within the Integrated Services Department as their lead School Social Worker. Liz completed coursework in the Educational Leadership Program at CSU and then became licensed as a School Administrator in Colorado. Liz spent three of those years as a Special Education Coordinator for Integrated Services where she supported the preschool program as well as organized and supported students who were placed out of district. She also helped to develop a framework to evaluate all Specialized Service Professionals at Poudre School District.
Throughout her time in the public schools, Liz supported and continues to support many initiatives and committees with the Colorado Department of Education. Most recently Liz has helped lead the development of a new School Social Work evaluation system for Colorado under the SB-191 legislation with the Department of Education. She continues to help the Colorado Department of Education review new licensing changes for School Social Workers in Colorado and is helping develop and lead a university specific workgroup with CSU, DU and Metro State to review School Social Work curriculum in response to new evaluation and licensing changes in the state.
In August 2014, Liz joined the Colorado State University School of Social Work Field Education Program as MSW Field Coordinator. As of August 2016 Liz continues to support the Field Education Program as the Associate Director of Field Education.
Degree Information
M.S.W., 1999, Social Work, Salem State College
B.A., 1993, English, Ohio State University
Associates Degree, 1991, Liberal Studies, Dean Jr. College
Academic Appointments
8.2016- Field Education Program Associate Director
2014 - present: MSW Field Coordinator, School of Social Work, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO
2004 – 2014 - Field Instructor / Supervisor, School of Social Work, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO
Professional post-baccalaureate and post-master's social work experience
8.2016- Field Education Program Associate Director
8.2014-8.2016 – MSW Field Education Coordinator
2008 - 2014: Integrated Services Coordinator, Poudre School District, Fort Collins, CO
2003 - 2008: District School Social Worker, Thompson School District, Loveland, CO
2001 - 2003: Larimer Center for Mental Health, Fort Collins & Loveland, CO
2000 - 2001: Lighthouse School, North Chelmsford, MA
1999 - 2000: North Suffolk Mental Health, East Boston, MA
Current professional, academic, community-related, and scientific memberships
School Social Work Association of America
Colorado School Social Work Association- President, Past President, Northern Representative, and Member, liaison – 2009- present
Colorado Department of Education - Social Work support
Founding Board Member of Autism Society of Larimer County
Faculty & Staff Links
Resources
Faculty and Staff Directory
Advisory Board
Our School
Employment in Our School
Faculty Highlights
College Awards
College Faculty and Staff Resources
Faculty Master Schedule
Emeriti and Retirees
Emeritus Faculty and Retired Staff
Emeriti and Retiree Resources
Legacies Project
Legacies Project Honoree Brad Sheafor
Legacies Project Honoree Bruce Hall
Legacies Project Honoree Maria Puig