Menu
Boston University School of Law
Eric Tennen
Lecturer
Partner, Swomley & Tennen, LLP
JD, Boston University School of Law
CONTACT
EMAIL
etennen@bu.edu
BIOGRAPHY
Eric Tennen is a partner Swomley & Tennen, LLP. His work focuses on criminal defense and civil rights matters. Attorney Tennen has extensive experience as a trial litigator and appellate advocate.
Attorney Tennen specializes in issues related to sex offenses and collateral consequences, such as involuntary civil commitment and sex offender registration. He has won the release of many persons facing civil commitment as a sexually dangerous person and has successfully petitioned for the release of persons who were already involuntarily committed. He has also successfully represented clients before the Sex Offender Registry Board. Attorney Tennen has been on several continuing legal education panels as an expert in sex offender registration practice.
Boston Magazine
Read Full Bio
COURSES
Sex Crimes (S): LAW JD 947


View all profiles
BU LAW NEWS
June 20, 2017
Supreme Court Cites Professor Kristin Collins in Citizenship Case, Morales-Santana
The high court draws extensively on Collins’s scholarship to hold gender discriminatory citizenship law unconstitutional.
June 14, 2017
BU Law School Research Initiative to Focus on Technology’s Impact on Society’s Well Being
The newly launched initiative will research the effects of new technology on the workforce, intellectual property policies that can encourage innovation, and more.
June 13, 2017
Khiara M. Bridges Changes the Conversation about Motherhood, Poverty, and the Right to Privacy
The professor of law and anthropology offers a new theory for the oversight and regulation of poor mothers in The Poverty of Privacy Rights.
BU LAW EVENTS
21
JUN
BU Law in DC: Young Alumni Happy Hour
22
JUN
Alumni Association Annual Meeting
25
JUL
Intellectual Property Day
8
SEP
Trade Law in the Trump Era: A Transatlantic Perspective
3
NOV
Misdemeanor Machinery: The Hidden Core of the American Criminal Justice System
BU LAW IN THE MEDIA
June 20, 2017
Will guilty verdict in teen texting suicide case lead to new laws on end-of-life issues?
Article by David Rossman, "Will guilty verdict in teen texting suicide case lead to new laws on end-of-life issues?" The Conversation.
June 20, 2017
Should Teen Who Goaded Boyfriend to Suicide Have Been Convicted?
Q&A with David Rossman, "Should Teen Who Goaded Boyfriend to Suicide Have Been Convicted?," BU Today.
June 19, 2017
What the suicide-by-text case has in common with a 19th-century trial
David Rossman quoted in "What the suicide-by-text case has in common with a 19th-century trial," Boston.com.
CONTACT LAW
JD Admissions
LLM Admissions
Career Development & Public Service
Communications & Marketing
Development & Alumni Relations
Faculty & Staff Directory
CONNECT WITH BU LAW
Instagram
Twitter
YouTube
Facebook
LinkedIn
Law Blogs
VISIT BU LAW
765 Commonwealth Avenue
Boston, MA 02215
Boston University
Boston University School of Law
MOVING FORWARD
Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries Give Back to BU School of Law ABA Required Disclosures