Skip to Content
Studies
Life and housing
Research
About NTNU
Search
Employees
Nathan Church
Researcher
Department of Geoscience and Petroleum
nathan.church@ntnu.no
+47 73594845
Berg, Gløshaugen
Scientific, academic and artistic work
A selection of recent journal publications, artistic productions, books, including book and report excerpts. See all publications in the database
Journal publications
Gamaletsos, Platon N.; Godelitsas, Athanasios; Kasama, Takeshi; Church, Nathan Stewart; Douvalis, Alexios; Goettlicher, Joerg; Steininger, Ralph; Boubnov, Alexey; Pontikes, Yiannis; Tzamos, Evangelos; Bakas, Thomas; Filippidis, Anestis. (2017) Nano-mineralogy and -geochemistry of high-grade diasporic karst-type bauxite from Parnassos-Ghiona mines, Greece. Ore Geology Reviews. vol. 84.
Church, Nathan Stewart; Fabian, Karl; McEnroe, Suzanne. (2016) Nonlinear Preisach maps: Detecting and characterizing separate remanent magnetic fractions in complex natural samples. Journal of Geophysical Research - Solid Earth. vol. 121 (12).
McEnroe, Suzanne; Robinson, Peter; Dyar, Darby, M.; Tegner, C.; Church, Nathan Stewart. (2016) Crustal magnetic signature of planets: Tracking the solid solution of Fe and exsolution of magnetite in Bushveld plagioclase by magnetic and Mössbauer properties. Geological Society of America, Abstracts with Programs.
Robinson, Peter; McEnroe, Suzanne; Miyajima, Nobuyoshi; Fabian, Karl; Church, Nathan Stewart. (2016) Remanent magnetization, magnetic coupling and interface ionic configurations of intergrown rhombohedral and cubic Fe-Ti oxides: a short survey. American Mineralogist. vol. 101 (3).
Bryson, James F J; Church, Nathan Stewart; Kasama, Takeshi; Harrison, Richard J.. (2014) Nanomagnetic intergrowths in Fe–Ni meteoritic metal: The potential for time-resolved records of planetesimal dynamo fields. Earth and Planetary Science Letters. vol. 388.
Kasama, Takeshi; Harrison, Richard J.; Church, Nathan Stewart; Nagao, Masahiro; Feinberg, Joshua M.; Dunin-Borkowski, Rafal E.. (2013) Ferrimagnetic/ferroelastic domain interactions in magnetite below the Verwey transition. Part I: electron holography and Lorentz microscopy. Phase Transitions. vol. 1.
oravova, lucie; Zhang, Zhiying; Church, Nathan Stewart; Harrison, Richard J.; Howard, Christopher J.; Carpenter, Michael A.. (2013) Elastic and anelastic relaxations accompanying magnetic ordering and spin-flop transitions in hematite, Fe2O3. Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter. vol. 25 (11).
Norwegian University of Science and Technology
Contact us
Phone: +47 73595000
Map of NTNU
Sitemap
Studies A to Z
Courses A to Z
Research A to Z
Search for employees
About cookies
Editorial Responsibility
Sign in