HomeAboutAcademicsFearless Ideas
Skip to main content
Global Top Navigation
SPH Centers
SPH Directory
SPH Resources
Student Services
Newsletter
Calendar
Search form
MENU
You are here
HOME » People
Jie Chen
Associate Professor, Health Services Administration
Other Affiliations: Center for Health Equity, Horowitz Center for Health Literacy, UMB Epidemiology and Public Health
Campus: UMD | Building: School of Public Health Building | Room: 3310E
Phone: (301) 405-9053 | Email: jichen@umd.edu
(link sends e-mail)

Website: 
Research webpage
CV / Resume
Jie Chen Curriculum Vitae.pdf
Bio
Publications
Biography
Dr. Jie Chen is an associate professor in the Department of Health Services Administration at the School of Public Health, University of Maryland at College Park. Dr. Chen’s research fields include (1) health care disparities; (2) health care delivery system and policy; (3) behavioral health; and (4) economic evaluation.  Her work uses a multidisciplinary perspective and involves collaboration with clinical leaders, community partners, and organizational decision makers. Her research seeks to inform the organization and allocation of health care resources to improve health care access. Most recently she has conducted research on patient-centered medical homes, including designing personalized patient activation and empowerment strategies to encourage and sustain patients’ involvement in their treatment. Her research on behavioral health focuses on the integration of health care organizations to promote behavioral health of vulnerable populations. Dr. Chen is also interested to study the impact of health policy initiatives and changing economic conditions on health care access, utilization, and health disparities. Her recent studies suggest that the Affordable Care Act can significantly improve health care access and reduce racial and ethnic health disparities. An additional field of her research involves economic evaluation, including cost-effectiveness and cost-benefit analysis of community intervention and state/federal policies. She is leading the economic evaluation of the Prince George’s County Health Department Health Enterprise Zone Project which implements an integrated patient-centered medical home model designed to improve health care and reduce health disparities in an underserved community. Dr. Chen has more than ten years of research experience developing, refining, and applying analytical methods to evaluate the impact of health policy and the health care delivery system on population health outcomes.
Education and Training
2008: Ph.D., Department of Economics, State University of New York, Stony Brook
2006: M.A., Department of Economics, State University of New York, Stony Brook
2001: B.S., Department of Management Information System, School of Business, Shanghai University, China
Courses
HLSA601 Introduction to Health Care Systems
HLSA711 Health Economics and Analysis
HLSA709 Current Topics in Health Services Research
HLSA765 Oral and Written Communication (co-teaching)
HLSA791 Advanced Research Seminar II
HLSA899 Doctoral Dissertation Research
HLSA898 Pre-candidacy research 
HLSA799 Master’s Thesis Research
HLSA786 Capstone Project in Public Health 
Honors and Awards
2017: Research and Development Award, School of Public Health, University of Maryland
2015 - 2017: Honoree, University of Maryland Ninth Annual Celebration of Scholarship and Research
2014: Delta Omega Gamma Zeta Chapter the Honorary Society in Public Health
2013: Recipient of the Research and Scholarship Award at the University of Maryland
2012: Minority Scholarship for Travel, National Institute of Aging
4200 Valley Drive, Suite 2242
College Park, Maryland 20742-2611
p: 301-405-2438
f: 301-405-8397
map
SPH RESOURCES
Contact Us
Directions and Maps
Employment
SPH Directory
Newsroom
Offices and Services
UMD RESOURCES
Offices and Services
UMD Directory
Academic Calendar
Course Catalog
TESTUDO
Innovation
CONNECT WITH UMD SPH
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Vimeo
LinkedIn
Flickr