Skip navigation
EXPLORE ANU »










A-Z INDEX »
School of Music
ANU College of Arts & Social Sciences
Search School of Music

Advanced search
SCHOOL OF MUSIC
Home
About us
People
News
Events
Future students
Current students
Performance
Scholarships & prizes
Research
Open School of Music
Music Engagement Program
Endowment for Performance Excellence
Partners & Sponsors
Book musicians and venues
Production services
Instruments and equipment
Friends of the School of Music
Contact us
SUBSCRIBE
You are here
Home » People » Susanne Powell
Susanne Powell
PERFORMANCE TEACHING FELLOW
Classical Piano
Susanne.Powell@anu.edu.au
Biography
Susanne Powell has an international reputation as pianist and accompanist. Ms. Powell's musical education commenced in Sydney, where she attended the Sydney Conservatorium High School and completed a Bachelor of Music degree, studying with Nancy Salas and David Miller. After further study in Vienna, at the Hochschule der Musik and Kunst with Professor Heinz Medjimorec, Susanne embarked on a career which has included performances, tours and broadcasts as soloist and with many Australian and international musicians.
Susanne has enjoyed a special musical relationship with violinist Cho Liang Lin, The Canberra Wind Soloists and with ëcellist David Pereira. A regular performer as a soloist and in chamber music festivals, Susanne is now becoming involved in CD recording. With clarinetist Allan Vivian she appears on the current release ''Fancy That!'' and in 2002 she undertook a recording of well- and lesser-known recital repertoire with violinist Barbara Jane Gilby. (To be released soon). As well as tutoring young musicians at the Pan Pacific Music and National Music Camps, Susanne appears with the Canberra Symphony Orchestra and performs regularly on ABC FM. Ms. Powell's experience in all areas of piano playing makes her ideally suited for the training of musicians as soloists, accompanists and chamber musicians. While giving her students a thorough grounding in piano technique and supporting their development in every way possible, she also encourages them to develop their own musical ideas and an individual style of playing. Susanne  has been a member of the faculty of the ANU School of Music since 1991.
    Updated:  12 June 2013/Responsible Officer:  Head, School of Music/Page Contact:  Development Officer
Contact ANU
Campus Map
Copyright
Disclaimer
Privacy
Freedom of Information
+61 2 6125 5111
The Australian National University, Canberra
CRICOS Provider : 00120C
ABN : 52 234 063 906