COLLEGE OF ARCHITECTURE AND URBAN STUDIES
News
Events Calendar
Degrees & Certificates
Faculty & Research
Students
About
Ralph Buehler
Associate Professor

ralphbu@vt.edu
(703) 706-8104
https://ralphbu.wordpress.com/
Ralph Buehler, PhD is Associate Professor in Urban Affairs & Planning and a Faculty Fellow with the Metropolitan Institute at Virginia Tech’s Alexandria Center.  His research interests fall into three areas: (1) the influence of transport policy, land use, socio-demographics on travel behavior; (2) active travel and public health; and (3) public transport demand, supply, financial efficiency, and policy. Most of his research has an international comparative perspective, contrasting transport and land-use policies, transport systems, and travel behavior in Western Europe and North America. Here is a comprehensive list of publications provided by google scholar.

For a pdf version of the CV click here.

Ralph’s research, outreach, and teaching seek to advance the understanding of determinants of individual travel behavior and the sustainability of transport systems. The goal is to identify and share policy lessons on how to achieve a more environmentally sound, economically efficient, and socially equitable urban transport system. Leveraging a comparative analysis framework, his research effectively contrasts travel behavior, socioeconomic factors, land use, transport policies, and the sustainability of transport systems at city, regional, and national scales in North America and Western Europe. Couched in solid theoretical frameworks and including national and international best practices, his work helps inform policy makers and contributes to the development of students in the field of planning.

Ralph's research has been funded by the German Federal Ministry of Transport, The Brookings Institution, the University Transportation Research Center (UTRC), the Mid-Atlantic Universities Transportation Center (MAUTC), Virginia Center for Transportation Innovation and Research (MATS-UTC), the European Commission, the United Nations, the Volvo Foundation, IFMO, INFAS, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), and the Alliance for Biking and Walking. He has received fellowships from the ENO Foundation, the Federal Highway Administration, the Federal Transit Administration, the German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD), and the American Institute of Contemporary German Studies.

Born and raised in Germany, he has gained research and work experience in his home country, the UK, France, and the USA. Ralph holds a PhD in Planning and Public Policy and a Masters of City and Regional Studies from Rutgers University, as well as a Masters in Politics and Management from the University of Konstanz, Germany. His dissertation “Transport Policies, Travel Behavior, and Sustainability: A Comparison of Germany and the U.S.” was honored with the “Barclay Gibbs Jones Award for Best Dissertation in Planning 2008” by the Association of Collegiate Schools of Planning (ACSP).

CV
Academic Experience
Sponsored Research
Education
Virginia Tech, School of Public and International Affairs, Urban Affairs & Planning
o Associate Professor (with tenure), 2013-present
o Assistant Professor (tenure track), 2008-2013
o Metropolitan Institute, Virginia Tech, Faculty Fellow, 2009-present















































Books
Chapters
Articles
City Cycling Book
Link to Book Website

Bicycling in cities is booming, for many reasons: health and environmental benefits, time and cost savings, more and better bike lanes and paths, innovative bike sharing programs, and the sheer fun of riding. City Cycling offers a guide to this urban cycling renaissance, with the goal of promoting cycling as sustainable urban transportation available to everyone. It reports on cycling trends and policies in cities in North America, Europe, and Australia, and offers information on such topics as cycling safety, cycling infrastructure provisions including bikeways and bike parking, the wide range of bike designs and bike equipment, integration of cycling with public transportation, and promoting cycling for women and children.

City Cycling emphasizes that bicycling should not be limited to those who are highly trained, extremely fit, and daring enough to battle traffic on busy roads. The chapters describe ways to make city cycling feasible, convenient, and safe for commutes to work and school, shopping trips, visits, and other daily transportation needs. The book also offers detailed examinations and illustrations of cycling conditions in different urban environments: small cities (including Davis, California, and Delft, the Netherlands), large cities (including Sydney, Chicago, Toronto and Berlin), and “megacities” (London, New York, Paris, and Tokyo). These chapters offer a closer look at how cities both with and without historical cycling cultures have developed cycling programs over time. The book makes clear that successful promotion of city cycling depends on coordinating infrastructure, programs, and government policies.

MIT Press. Urban and Industrial Environments series.
ISBN-10: 0-262-51781-7
ISBN-13: 978-0-262-51781-2


Reports to Governments

Buehler, R., Zimmerman, M., and Lukacs, K. 2015. Regional Coordination of Public Transportation: Lessons from Germany, Switzerland, and Austria. Report prepared for the Mid- Atlantic University Transportation Research Consortium (MAUTC), University Park, PA as part of the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Washington, D.C.

Buehler, R., Hamre, A. 2014. “Economic Benefits of Capital Bikeshare: A Focus on Users and Businesses,” Report prepared for the Mid-Atlantic University Transportation Research Consortium (MAUTC), University Park, PA as part of the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Washington, D.C.

Buehler, R., Hamre, A. 2013. “Multimodal Travel Behavior in the United States,” Report prepared for the Mid-Atlantic University Transportation Research Consortium (MAUTC), University Park, PA as part of the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Washington, D.C.

Buehler, R., Hamre, A., Sonenklar, D., Goger, P. 2011. “Trends and Determinants of Cycling in the Washington, DC Region,” Report prepared for the U.S. Department of Transportation, Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Washington, DC, and the Mid- Atlantic University Transportation Research Consortium (MAUTC), University Park, PA.

Pucher, J., Buehler, R. 2011. “Analysis of Bicycling Trends and Policies in Large North American Cities: Lessons for New York,” Report for U. S. Department of Transportation, Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Washington, D.C. and UTRC II New York.

Dawkins, C., Buehler, R. 2011. “Promoting Affordable Housing Near Public Transit: The Role of Planning,” Report  for the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Washington, D.C.

Buehler, R., Kunert, U. 2008. “Trends und Determinanten des Verkehrsverhaltens in den USA und Deutschland / Trends and Determinants of Travel Behavior in Germany and the USA,” Report to the German Federal Ministry of Transportation and Urban Development (173 pages).












































































Blacksburg
140 Otey St.
Blacksburg, VA 24060

CONTACT US
Washington DC
1021 Prince St.
Alexandria, VA 22314

CONTACT US
Richmond
2810 Parham Rd.
Richmond, VA 23294

CONTACT US


Copyright 2016 School of Public & International Affairs | Virginia Tech
Privacy Policy
Acceptable Use
Facebook
Twitter