Jump to navigation
Prospective Students
Current Students
Alumni
Visit
Directory
Portal
News and Events
APPLY
About
Academics
Admissions
Current Students
Alumni & Giving
Library
Faculty & Scholarship
News & Events
Home Faculty & Scholarship Full-Time Faculty Orin S. Kerr
Orin S. Kerr
Title:
Fred C. Stevenson Research Professor of Law
Address:
2000 H Street, NW
Washington, District Of Columbia 20052
Phone:
202-994-4775
Fax:
202-994-5654
Email:
okerr@law.gwu.edu
Orin S. Kerr is a nationally recognized scholar of criminal procedure and computer crime law, as well as the Director of the Cybersecurity Law Initiative. Since he joined the faculty in 2001, his publications have been cited in over 2,500 articles and more than 250 judicial opinions.
Professor Kerr is a former trial attorney in the Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section at the U.S. Department of Justice, as well as a Special Assistant U.S. Attorney in the Eastern District of Virginia. He clerked for Judge Leonard I. Garth of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit and Justice Anthony M. Kennedy of the United States Supreme Court.
Professor Kerr has argued cases in the United States Supreme Court and three federal circuits.  He has testified six times before Congressional committees. In 2013, Chief Justice Roberts appointed Professor Kerr to serve on the Advisory Committee for the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure. Chief Justice Roberts appointed Professor Kerr again in 2015 to serve on the Judicial Conference’s committee to review the Criminal Justice Act.
Professor Kerr has been a visiting professor at the University of Chicago and the University of Pennsylvania.  In addition to writing more than 50 articles, he has authored and co-authored popular casebooks and co-authored the leading criminal procedure treatise. He also posts regularly at The Washington Post’s legal blog The Volokh Conspiracy.
The GW Law Class of 2009 awarded Professor Kerr the law school’s teaching award. Before attending law school, he earned undergraduate and graduate degrees in mechanical engineering.
Curriculum Vitae     Publications
Education
BSE, Princeton University; MS, Stanford University; JD, Harvard University
In the News
"Your Cellphone Privacy Rights May Depend on This Supreme Court Case"
June 09, 2017
Orin S. Kerr is quoted in Mother Jones about how cellphone privacy rights will be affected due to Carpenter v. United States.
"Supreme Court to Take Up Privacy of Cell Phone Tracking"
June 05, 2017
Orin S. Kerr is quoted in NBC News about whether police need a search warrant to track the movements of cell phone users.
"Trump's New Thoughts On His Travel Ban Are Making His Lawyers' Lives Miserable"
June 05, 2017
Orin S. Kerr is quoted in HuffPost about how Donald Trump's travel ban in court might be excused.
"United States v. Wallace Is a GPS Case, Not a Cell-Site Case — Here's Why It Matters"
May 24, 2017
Orin S. Kerr writes in The Washington Post about a new decision from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 5th Circuit on Wallace.
"Fifth Circuit Creates Split on Whether Prospective Cell-Site Collection Is a Fourth Amendment 'Search'"
May 23, 2017
Orin S. Kerr writes in The Washington Post about what happens when the government engages in prospective cell-site surveillance.
  1 of 2 next ›
Full-Time Faculty
Deans
Adjunct Faculty
Emeriti Faculty
Librarians
Visiting Faculty & Fellows
Faculty Files
Faculty Scholarship
The George Washington University Law School
2000 H Street, NW
p - 202.994.1010
f - 202.994.8980
Visitor Information
Directory
Events
Portal
Alumni & Giving
        Campus Advisories
Non-Discrimination Policy
Privacy Policy
Contact GW
Terms of Use
Copyright
A-Z Index