Kansas State University
Search K-State web, people, directories
Browse A-Z
Sign in
K-State home»Arts and Sciences»Political Science»Faculty and Staff»Alissandra Stoyan
Department of Political Science
Home
Programs
Faculty and Staff
News and Events
Scholarships and Giving
Gaming Political Science
Model United Nations
Suleiman Chair
Assessment
Contact us
Department of
Political Science
Kansas State University
802 Mid Campus Dr. South
101D Calvin Hall
Manhattan, KS 66506
785-532-6842
785-532-2339 (fax)
polsci@ksu.edu
Alissandra Stoyan
Ph.D. Political Science, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill      
Alissandra T. Stoyan is an Assistant Professor of Political Science at Kansas State University. She received her M.A. (2010) and Ph.D. (2014) in Political Science from UNC Chapel Hill. She also earned a B.A. in Political Science and Spanish from Union College (2006).  
Stoyan’s research currently centers on political institutions, executive politics, democratization, and Latin American politics. More specifically, she has been engaged in work on how presidents with ambitious reform agendas implement them through a Constituent Assembly in Latin America. Other research evaluates the interactions between public opinion and political institutions, executive-legislative relations and policy-making, gender and politics, as well as institutional change and the expansion of legal rights.
Stoyan conducted eight months of in-depth fieldwork and elite interviews in Bolivia and Ecuador. Additionally, she has done fieldwork in Argentina, the UK, Sweden, and the Netherlands, assisting with elite interviews in the later three cases.
She teaches courses in Comparative and Latin American politics, including: Introduction to Comparative Politics, Latin American Politics, International Relations of Latin America, and Comparative Political Institutions.
Website
Contact us
Emergency
Statements and disclosures
Accessibility
Kansas State University
Manhattan, KS 66506
785-532-6011
© Kansas State University
Updated: 6/12/17