Skip to main content
Site Search
Search
Main Navigation
Find a Doctor Locations Healthcare Services
Featured Services
Cancer
Heart and Vascular
Neurological Institute
Obstetrics Gynecology
Sports Medicine
Transplant
Primary and Walk-In Care
Emergency Care
Primary Care
Walk in Clinics
Healthcare Services
Allergy Immunology Care
Arthritis Rheumatology
Asthma Care
Brain and Spine
Burn Care
Cancer
Diabetes and Endocrinology
Digestive Diseases
Ear Nose Throat
Emergency Trauma
Eye Care Ophthalmology
Genetics
Geriatrics
Health and Wellness
Heart Vascular
Imaging Radiology
Infectious Diseases
Integrative Complementary Medicine
Intensive Care
Kidney Care
Liver Diseases
Lung Pulmonary
Mental Behavioral
Obstetrics Gynecology
Orthopedics
Palliative Care
Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation
Plastic Surgery
Primary Care
Robotic Surgery
Skin Care Dermatology
Sleep Disorders
Sports Medicine
Transplant
Urology
Walk in Clinics
Weight Management
Wound Healing
Conditions
Site Search
Search
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
Patient & Visitor Guide OSUMyChart Blog Subscribe to our emails
Global Navigation
Healthcare Professionals Ways To Give About Us Media Room Careers
Search
Jonathan Schaffir, MD
Back to Search Results
Schedule an appointment
(614) 366-3075
Insurances We Accept
As an obstetrician/gynecologist, I treat a variety of health concerns within this area of medicine. I am especially interested in those aspects of obstetrics and gynecology that are related to psychological and behavioral issues. These aspects may include sexuality, premenstrual mood disorders or other health-related concerns.

In my practice as a generalist obstetrician/gynecologist, I provide care for women through the full spectrum of their reproductive health needs. This ranges from family planning and pregnancy care to menstrual and menopausal problems.

I enjoy all aspects of care, from annual well-woman visits to delivering babies to performing surgical procedures when they are necessary.

Working at The Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center, I know that there are many valuable resources available. Whenever necessary, I can refer my patients to the appropriate experts in any field. I know they will take excellent care of any problems my patients may have that are outside of my area of expertise.

In my free time there are many things I like to do, especially taking the time to enjoy a good movie.

Highlights
Rated in the top 10 percent of physicians in the nation for patient satisfaction, 2014, 2015
President, North American Society for Psychosocial Obstetrics and Gynecology, 2013-2015
Director, Ohio State College of Medicine Reproductive Medicine/ Endocrinology Course
Recipient of Ohio State's Excellence in Teaching Award
Medical Degree
M.D.
Brown University
5/30/1990
Residency
Obstetrics / Gynecology
Mount Sinai School of Medicine SUNY
7/1/1991 - 6/30/1994
Specialties and conditions I treat
Obstetrics & Gynecology
Obstetrics
Gynecology
Preeclampsia
Pregnancy
Parturition
My videos
Locations where I practice
Sports Medicine and Rehabilitation Gahanna
Sports Medicine and Rehabilitation Gahanna
920 North Hamilton Road
Suite 600
Gahanna, OH 43230

Please note: Not all physicians schedule patients at each listed location. Please call the “Schedule an appointment” number shown above for scheduling assistance.
More about my work
My background
Board Certification

Obstetrics & Gynecology
News about me
Survey Finds Folk Remedies Often Offered During Breastfeeding
Consulting and Related Relationships
At The Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center, we support a faculty member’s research and consulting in collaboration with medical device, research and/or drug companies, etc. because a faculty member’s expertise can guide important advancements in the practice of medicine and improve patient care. In order to provide effective management of these relationships, the University requires annual disclosures from all faculty members with external interests related to their University responsibilities.
As of 03/25/2016, Dr. Schaffir has reported no financial relationships with medical device, research and/or drug companies, etc. If you have questions about how these relationships are monitored by The Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center, please contact our Compliance Office at 614-293-7802.
Live healthier and stay inspired.
Get tips from Ohio State experts right to your inbox.
Email address
First name
By clicking "Subscribe" you agree to our .
Thank you! Look for your first email in your inbox soon.
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Quick Links
Quality and Safety Careers Bill Pay Donate Contact Us Find a Doctor Participate in Research Sitemap
Helpful Resources
Privacy Policy Terms of Use Public Notices Disability Access Supplier Interaction Patient Rights Notice of Non Discrimination
Other Sites
OSUCCC - James College of Medicine OSU.edu OSUMyChart
If you have a disability and experience difficulty accessing this content, contact our webmaster at webmaster@osumc.edu.