Skip navigation and jump directly to page content
Choose site to be searched
People
  COGS
  IU
Type search terms
UNDERGRADUATE GRADUATE FACULTY CONTACT US
About Us
Undergraduate
Graduate
People
Specialties
Affiliates and Liaisons
Publications
News
Events
Multimedia
Software
Featured Links

Graduate School Preparation
Faculty Directory
Student Organization (SOCS)
Departmental Liaisons
Site Index

Faculty Spotlight
Wayne L. Winston




Home » People » Profile
Thomas W. James
Associate Professor, Psychological And Brain Sciences
Office: Rm 371 Psychology
Phone: (812) 856-0841


See also: Perception and Neuroimaging (PAN) Lab
Education
Ph.D., the University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada, 2001
Research Interests
Object recognition and representation

My research is involved with discovering the neural mechanisms underlying human object recognition and representation. I use a combination of experimental techniques, including functional MRI and psychophysics to explore these questions. I see object representations as multi-sensory. In other words, object representations are sensory in nature, as opposed to being amodal constructs, and object representations are not uni-sensory (e.g., purely visual). Multi-sensory object representations are conceived as an ecological solution for various cognitive phenomena such as object perception and memory and the storage and retrieval of semantic knowledge.
Facilities
The Perception and Neuroimaging (PAN) laboratory is housed within the Psychology Building. In addition to psychophysics testing rooms, we have access to the on-site 3T Siemens functional MRI facility. This allows the use of multiple techniques (i.e., behavior and neuroimaging) to address questions, which is one of the foundations of cognitive neuroscience.
Dissertation Committee Service
Bold student names indicate a cognitive science standalone student.
Author Dissertation Title Committee
Kim, SunAh Neural Mechanisms of Multisensory Visuo-Haptic Object Recognition (August 2010) James, T. (Chair), Puce, A. (Co-Chair), Craig, J., James, K.
Lee, Sungyoung Understanding Available Resources During TV Message Processing: Audio/Video Redundancy, Emotion, Structural Complexity, and Motivated Cognition (August 2009) Lang, A. (Co-Chair), James, T. (Co-Chair), Potter, R., Fox, J.
Lee, Young Lim Metric Shape Can Be Perceived Accurately And Used Both For Object Recognition and Visually Guided Action (September 2009) Bingham, G. (Co-Chair), Busey, T., James, T. (Co-Chair), Hanson, A (Co-Chair).
Stanton, Roger Dissociations of Classification: Evidence against the Multiple Learning-Systems Hypothesis (August 2007) Nosofsky, R. (Chair), Goldstone, R., James, T., Kruschke, J.
Copyright © 2015 The Trustees of Indiana University | Copyright Complaints | Comments
Powered by the IU WCMS using Site Builder