skip to primary navigation
skip to content
Study at Cambridge
About the University
Research at Cambridge
Quick links
Log in
Home
Department of Architecture
People
Dr. Ying Jin
Department of Architecture
Home
About the Department
About the Department Overview
A History of the Architecture Department
Scroope Journal
Scroope Journal Overview
Current Issue
Upcoming Issue
Call for Abstracts
Past Issues
Dalibor Vesely Fund
Dalibor Vesely Fund Overview
The Cultural Significance of Architecture: A conference in memory of Dalibor Vesely
The Cultural Significance of Architecture: A conference in memory of Dalibor Vesely Overview
Session 1: History and Philosophy of Architecture
Session 1: History and Philosophy of Architecture Overview
To the conference in memory of Dalibor Vesely - José de Paiva
Low Relief - or, articulation tied to embodiment - David Leatherbarrow
Dalibor Vesely and The Primacy of Orality - Perez-Gomez
Karsten Harries - Remembering Dalibor Vesely
Robin Middleton - Dalibor Vesely statement
The Cultural Significance of Architecture - In Memory of Dalibor Vesely - Mari Hvattum
Hvattum_Presentation1
What is the cultural significance of architecture - Peter Carl
The Presence of Dalibor Vesely - K Frampton
Dalibor Vesely's Flat - The Dwelling as a Communicative Field - Dagmar Weston
Session 2: Design and the European City
Session 2: Design and the European City Overview
Drawings: David Dernie
Chatting about the city - Diana Periton
Dalibor Reflections - Mohsen Mostafavi - March2016
Creative Intelligence in Architecture - Phil Meadowcroft
Design and the European City - Kalliope Kontozoglou
Athanasios Spanomaridis with DALIBOR VESELY
To DALIBOR - Athanasios Spanomaridis
E.Parry_Dalibor Vesely conference (Session 2)_11 April 2016
CWFrost. Fragment Craft Tradition
David Bass - Architecture Laughter and Animals
Diana Periton - slides
Session 3: Legacy, New Horizons
Session 3: Legacy, New Horizons Overview
Carolyn Steel - conference slides
Hand Drawings - P Lynch
Sitopia – a tribute to Dalibor by Carolyn Steel
The Cultural Significance of Architecture - In Memory of Dalibor Vesely - Stephen Witherford
Dalibor Vesely and the criticism of architecture - Rowan Moore060416
P LYNCH PRESENTATION - DV SYMPOSIUM EMMANUELLE COLLEGE-opt
Architecture's Contribution - Wendy Pullan
Biba Dow - Dalibor conf_Session 3
Homa - diffused digital
Homa - Conference Slides
William Mann - Ruins of the Baroque - slides
William Mann - Ruins of the Baroque - Slides and text
Dalibor Vesely Memorial Conference Programme
Conference videos via the Department YouTube Channel
Facilities
Facilities Overview
Workshop
Support Us
ARCSOC Student Exhibition 2015
Jobs
The Martin Centre
People
People Overview
Head of Department
Academic Staff
Research Staff
Support Staff
Graduate Students
Admissions
Admissions Overview
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Overview
The Course
The Course Overview
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Teaching and Assessment
Facilities
Student Life
Applying
Careers
Catalogue/ Prospectus
Outreach and Widening Participation
Postgraduate
Postgraduate Overview
MPhil Degree in Architecture and Urban Design (MAUD) - ARB/ RIBA Pt2
MPhil Degree in Architecture and Urban Design (MAUD) - ARB/ RIBA Pt2 Overview
How to apply for the MPhil Degree in Architecture and Urban Design
Postgraduate Certificate in Professional Practice in Architecture - ARB/ RIBA Pt3
Postgraduate Certificate in Professional Practice in Architecture - ARB/ RIBA Pt3 Overview
How to apply for the Postgraduate Certificate in Professional Practice in Architecture
MPhil in Architecture & Urban Studies (MAUS)
MPhil in Architecture & Urban Studies (MAUS) Overview
How to apply for the MPhil in Architecture and Urban Studies
Recent Projects
MSt Building History
MSt Building History Overview
Contributors
Course Structure
Core Modules
Optional Modules
Assessment
Placements
The Building History Bursary Fund
Building History Newsletter April 2017
Building History Newsletter December 2016
Building History Newsletter March 2016
Building History Newsletter 2 February 2015
Building History Newsletter April 2014
MSt in Interdisciplinary Design for the Built Environment
PhD in Architecture
PhD in Architecture Overview
How to apply for the PhD in Architecture
Current Students
Current Students Overview
Information for New Students
Information for New Students Overview
Information for New Students
Recommended Reading List for New Students
Information for Undergraduate Students
Information for Undergraduate Students Overview
Course Materials for Current Students
The Costs of Studying Architecture
Lecture List 2016-17
Information for Graduate Students
Information for Graduate Students Overview
Information for all Graduate Students
Information for all Graduate Students Overview
Your Student Record
Your Contact Details
Supervision Reports for Graduate Students
Taking time off (intermitting): what you need to do and how to apply
Working Away from Cambridge: what you need to do and how to apply
Graduate Hardship Funding
Faculty Fieldwork Funding
Kettle’s Yard Travel Awards
Certificates and Transcripts
Degree Approval and Conferment
Degree Committee Meetings, Board of Graduate Studies meetings and Congregation Dates
Plagiarism
Applying for the Appointment of Examiners: what you need to do and how to apply
Course Documentation
University’s Career Service
Information for MPhil Students
Information for MPhil Students Overview
Information for all MPhil Students
Information for all MPhil Students Overview
Extending the Submission Deadline of your Coursework or Dissertation
Course Material for MPhil Students
Course Material for MPhil Students Overview
MAUD & MAUS Programme of Seminar Courses 2015-2016
Certificate of Dissertation Submission
Personal Progress Log-Book
Information for MPhil in Architecture & Urban Design (MAUD) Students
Information for MPhil in Architecture & Urban Design (MAUD) Students Overview
Course Documentation
Course Documentation Overview
Course Handbook
Personal Progress Log-Book
MAUD & MAUS Programme of Seminar Courses 2016-2017
Information for MPhil in Architecture & Urban Studies (MAUS) Students
Information for MPhil in Architecture & Urban Studies (MAUS) Students Overview
Course Documentation
Course Documentation Overview
Course Handbook
Personal Progress Log-Book
Information for MPhil in Architecture Students
Information for MPhil in Architecture Students Overview
Third Term Review
Course Documentation
Course Documentation Overview
Course Handbook
Personal Progress Log-Book
MAUD & MAUS Programme of Seminar Courses 2015-2016
Information for PhD Students
Information for PhD Students Overview
1st Year Report & Formal Registration for the PhD Degree
2nd Year Presentation
10th Term Review
Applying for the Appointment of Examiners
Extending the Submission Deadline of your Thesis
Submitting your Thesis for Examination
Preparing for your PhD Viva Voce ‘Viva’/Oral Examination
Course Documentation
Course Documentation Overview
Course Handbook
Personal Progress Log-Book
List of Architecture PhD Theses held by University Library
Bursaries for work experience from the Careers Service for PhD students
First Year Projects
First Year Projects Overview
Build it Bamboo
Hide & Speak
Look Out
Pause Play
Space to Perform
Storage of Discoveries
Links
Events
Previous Events
  Dr. Ying Jin
Department of Architecture
About the Department
The Martin Centre
People
Head of Department
Academic Staff
Research Staff
Support Staff
Graduate Students
Admissions
Current Students
Links
Events
Previous Events
University Senior Lecturer
Robinson College (Fellow)
Director of Studies for Robinson College

Email: yj242@cam.ac.uk
Office Phone: 01223 760112
Download as vCard
Biography:
Ying Jin lectures on city planning, urban design, and urban modelling.  He is particularly interested in understanding how technology, policy and human behaviour affect the development of cities and their infrastructure, and in using this knowledge for creating new design solutions.
His main research interests are computer models of cities, and urban history.  He has extensive industry experience and directed multi-disciplinary teams in building and using computer models as experimental platforms to appraise policy scenarios that involve investment, regulation, pricing and promotional campaigns.  Key projects include strategic planning of London and surrounding regions, sub-regional and local planning in the English Midlands, transport and energy scenarios for the European Union, long term city region and transport plans in China and in South America, and mapping urban poverty in emerging economies.  His interests in urban history lie mainly with the European Renaissance cities and the Chinese cities since the Tang Dynasty in the 7th Century.
At the Department of Architecture Dr Jin leads the Cities and Transport research group, which is one of the world’s leading centres in the creation and use of conceptual and practical models at the city and city-region scales.  These models, including its most recent alpha-version, have been applied in policy and planning studies to assess novel designs of buildings, neighbourhoods, transport and energy systems.  The group’s past policy impacts were reviewed in a Cambridge University case study in REF2014 (http://results.ref.ac.uk/DownloadFile/ImpactCaseStudy/pdf?caseStudyId=23292). 
Among a wide range of research projects, Dr Jin leads the city-scale smart data and urban modelling applications at the EPSRC Centre for Smart Infrastructure and Construction (CSIC 2011-2020).  He is also a co-Investigator at the  EPSRC research project Managing Air for Green Inner Cities (2016-2018) (http://www.arct.cam.ac.uk/news/cambridge-university-receives-ps4-1-million-research-grant-to-investigate-how-to-eradicateair-pollution-and-heat-island-effect-in-cities-by-2050) and the Smart Urban Design research project funded by the Cambridge-UC Berkeley-National University of Singapore Global Alliance initiative (2016-2018).  He is the lead convenor of the international symposia on Applied Urban Modelling since its launch in 2011.
Recent Publications:
Martani, C, Y Jin, K Soga and S Scholtes (2016).  Design with uncertainty: the role of future options for infrastructure integration. Computer-Aided Civil and Infrastructure Engineering (CACAIE) 10:733-748 (DoI: 10.1111/mice.12214/full).
Jahanshashi, K and Y Jin (2016). Trendbreaking Influences of Built Form on Travel in UK Cities: Evidence from New Quantifications of Within- and Between-Built-Form Variations. Transportation Research Record: Journal of the Transportation Research Board, No. 2564.  (trid.trb.org/view/2016/C/1393764/DoI: 10.3141/2564-04). 
Hillel, T, P Guthrie, M Elshafie and Y. Jin (2016). Assessing the discrepancies between recorded and commonly assumed journey times in London.  Proceedings of the International Conference on Smart Infrastructure and Construction.  Institute of Civil Engineers, London.
Jahanshashi, K, Y Jin and IN Williams (2015). Direct and indirect influences on employed adults’ travel in the UK: New insights from the National Travel Survey data 2002–2010.  Transportation Research Part A: Policy and Practice, Vol 80, pp288-306. (http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S096585641500227X).
Hagen-Zanker, A and Y Jin (2015).  Adaptive zoning for efficient transport modelling in urban models. 15th International Conference on Computational Science and Its Applications (ICCSA 2015). Banff, AB, Canada, June 22–25.  Best Paper Award. (Published as Gervasi, O, B Murgante, S Misra, ML Gavrilova, AMAC Rocha, C Torre, D Taniar and BO Apduhan (eds.) (2015). Computational Science and Its Applications – ICCSA 2015 Proceedings Part III, Springer, Heidelberg, pp673-687).
Deng, DB, S Denman, V Zachariadis and Y Jin, (2015). Estimating traffic delays and network speeds from low frequency GPS taxis traces for urban transport modelling.  European Journal of Transport and Infrastructure Research, 15 (Smart Cities special issue), 639-661 see  http://www.tbm.tudelft.nl/fileadmin/Faculteit/TBM/Onderzoek/EJTIR/Back_issues/15.4/2015_04b_01.pdf.  
Jahanshashi, K and Y Jin (2015). The built environment typologies in the UK and their influences on travel behaviour: new evidence through latent categorisation in structural equation modelling.  Journal of Transportation and Technology, 39:1, 59-77, DoI: 10.1080/03081060.2015.1108083 (Special issue paper selected from Universities Transport Research Groups Conference 2015).
Rong, X., Jin, Y., & Long, Y (2015). Understanding Beijing’s Urban Land Use Development 2004-2013 through online administrative data sources. Recent Developments in Chinese Urban Planning. Springer International Publishing, 2015: 183-217
Jin, Y, RG   Bullock, R Yu, N Zhou, J Nan, M Gao, Z Xu, C Guo, L Shi (2014a). Regional Economic Impact Analysis of High Speed Rail in China: main report and step by step guide for regional impact assessment. The World Bank.    http://www.worldbank.org/content/dam/Worldbank/document/EAP/China/high_speed-rail-%20in-china-en.pdf.  
Jin, Y, RG Bullock and W Fang (2014b). Spatial proximity and productivity in an emerging economy: econometric findings from Guangdong Province, People’s Republic of China.  Regional Economic Impact Analysis of High Speed Rail in China Working Paper. The World Bank. https://openknowledge.worldbank.org/handle/10986/19989 (Appendix to the report above).
Li, W and Y Jin (2014). Review on Applied Urban Modeling and New Trends of Urban Spatial Policy Models.  Urban Planning Forum, 1:81-91.  http://www.oriprobe.com/Journals/csghhk/2014_1.html..
Jin Y, M Echenique and A Hargreaves (2013). A recursive spatial equilibrium model for planning large-scale urban change. Environment and Planning B: Planning and Design (Advance online publication, doi:10.1068/b39134).
Clusters of recent papers:
The papers are results from long term, productive contributions with research colleagues and students across many disciplinary boundaries. 
Related Links
Energy Efficient Cities Initiative (EECi)
Centre for Smart Infrastructure
Low Carbon Urban Design Project
Dr. Jin's CV
Contact us
Postal Address:
Department of Architecture
1-5 Scroope Terrace
Cambridge
CB2 1PX
Tel: 01223 332950
Information provided by:
   webmaster@arct.cam.ac.uk
Site Privacy & Cookie Policies
How to find us: click here for our location on a map
© 2015 University of Cambridge
University A-Z
Contact the University
Accessibility
Freedom of information
Terms and conditions
Study at Cambridge
Undergraduate
Graduate
International students
Continuing education
Executive and professional education
Courses in education
About the University
How the University and Colleges work
Visiting the University
Map
News
Events
Jobs
Give to Cambridge
Research at Cambridge
News
Features
Discussion
Spotlight on...
About research at Cambridge