Skip to main content
Login
Contact
Search form
Search
MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
MIT Website
DMSE Homepage
Department of Materials Science and Engineering
ABOUT DMSE
RESEARCH
ACADEMICS
RESOURCES
FACULTY
NEWS AND EVENTS
Faculty
  Yoel
Fink
Professor of Materials Science
MacVicar Faculty Fellow
Director, Research Laboratory of Electronics
Joint Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
B.Sc. Chemical Engineering, Technion - Israel Institute of Technology, 1994
B.A. Physics, Technion - Israel Institute of Technology, 1995
Ph.D. Materials Science, MIT, 2000
Room 36-419
Phone: 
(617) 258-6113
Fax: 
(617) 253-1301
yoel@mit.edu
Personal Website
Disciplines: 
Medical
Nanotechnology
Photonic Materials
Research: 
Professor Fink's research interests are in the theory, design, fabrication and characterization of multimaterial multifunctional fibers and fiber assemblies. Fibers are among the earliest forms of human expression, yet surprisingly have remained unchanged from ancient to modern times. Can fibers become highly functional devices? Can they see, hear, sense and communicate? Fink’s research group, fibers@mit, focuses on extending the frontiers of fiber materials from optical transmission to encompass electronic, optoelectronic and even acoustic properties. What makes these fibers unique is the combination of a multiplicity of disparate materials arranged in elaborate geometries with features down to 10 nanometers. Two complementary approaches towards realizing sophisticated functions are utilized: on the single-fiber level, the integration of a multiplicity of functional components into one fiber, and on the multiple-fiber level, the assembly of large-scale fiber arrays and fabrics. Fink’s multimaterial fibers offer unprecedented control over material properties and function on length scales spanning the nanometer to kilometer range.
Related NewsPublications
Advanced Functional Fabrics of America opens headquarters steps from MIT campus
Tuesday, June 20, 2017 - 1:15pm
AFFOA headquarters represents a significant MIT investment in advanced manufacturing innovation. This facility includes a Fabric Discovery Center that provides end-to-end prototyping from fiber design to system integration of new textile-based products, and will be used for education and...
MIT lab shows off smart threads that can send messages, change color
Tuesday, June 20, 2017 - 11:00am
“Fabric is the new software,” said Yoel Fink, an MIT professor of materials science and chief executive of Advanced Functional Fabrics of America. AFFOA is a public-private partnership founded last year, headquartered at MIT, and backed by more than $300 million from universities, corporations,...
AFFOA launches state-of-the-art facility for protoyping advanced fabrics
Monday, June 19, 2017 - 11:00am
Just over a year after its funding award, a new center for the development and commercialization of advanced fabrics is officially opening its headquarters today in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and will be unveiling the first two advanced fabric products to be commercialized from the center’s work...
Stretching the boundaries of neural implants
Friday, March 31, 2017 - 1:15pm
New flexible fibers developed by Professor Polina Anikeeva and her research team are able to stimulate and monitor neurons in the spine without being invasive. 
"Now, researchers have developed a rubber-like fiber that can flex and stretch while simultaneously delivering both optical...
Tiny fibers open new windows into the brain
Friday, February 24, 2017 - 12:00pm
"For the first time ever, a single flexible fiber no bigger than a human hair has successfully delivered a combination of optical, electrical, and chemical signals back and forth into the brain, putting into practice an idea first proposed two years ago. With some tweaking to further improve its...
New method snips complex fibers into uniform particles
Thursday, June 9, 2016 - 10:30am
  "An interdisciplinary team of researchers enabled by the National Science Foundation-funded Materials Research Science and Engineering Centers (MRSEC) program has developed a way to break fibers or sheets of material into many tiny, almost perfectly uniform segments or strips. The...
Precise, Efficient Microparticle and Nanoparticle Fabrication
Wednesday, May 11, 2016 - 11:00am
"Researchers at UCF and MIT have created an economical, efficient, scalable fabrication method of...
New collaboration to accelerate innovations in fibers and fabrics
Friday, April 1, 2016 - 4:30pm
An independent nonprofit founded by MIT has been selected to run a new, $317 million public-private partnership announced today by Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter.
The partnership, named the Advanced Functional Fibers of America (AFFOA) Institute, has won a national competition for...
Collier Medal- Yoel Fink, 2016
Friday, March 25, 2016 - 10:30am
  The Department of Materials Science and Engineering is thrilled to congratulate Dr. Yoel Fink for earning the Collier Medal!
Collier Medal 
In honor of Sean Collier's model citizenship that far transcended his work, the Collier Medal will be given to an...
MIT student participates in own cancer diagnosis and treatment
Thursday, April 2, 2015 - 9:30am
Steven Keating, currently a student in Mechanical Engineering and the Media Lab, participated in a 2007 research study that included MRI scans of his brain; a small abnormality was seen, and he was advised to have it evaluated in a few years. When he developed symptoms in 2014, he requested an...
Fibers made by transforming materials
Sunday, February 22, 2015 - 7:00pm
New approach could enable low-cost silicon devices in fibers that could be made into fabrics. See the full story at the MIT News Office.
...
Fabrics that act as communications devices
Tuesday, February 19, 2013 - 7:00pm
Wired magazine has a story about research in the ISN, "The breakthrough came a few years ago when...
Professor Fink and colleagues are on the cover of Advanced Materials
Monday, November 26, 2012 - 7:00pm
 ...
Creating structured microscopic particles
Wednesday, July 18, 2012 - 8:00pm
Professor Fink and his coleagues have found a new method for making spherical particles, from nanoscale to pinhead-sized — including complex beach-ball-like shapes.  See the story at the MIT...
New uses for flexible fibers
Sunday, March 11, 2012 - 8:00pm
Professor Yoel Fink and his collaborators recently developed a fiber that contains channels of liquid crystals, transmitting light. These fibers may have varied applications: a 3-D display, woven from fibers, or as part of a medical device to irradiate diseased tissues....
Prof. Fink named RLE Director
Tuesday, August 9, 2011 - 8:00pm
Yoel Fink PhD ’00, a professor of materials science and a MacVicar Faculty Fellow, has been named the next director of MIT’s Research Laboratory of Electronics. Learn more from the MIT News Office.
Semiconductors built inside optical fibers
Tuesday, March 8, 2011 - 7:00pm
Dr. Nick Orf and other members of the Fink group have developed a method to build semiconductor devices inside a fiber. This work continues the intriguing fiber research from the Fink group, such as the smart fibers that sense sound and light, the singing fibers, and the perfect mirror fibers....
Hear Prof. Yoel Fink on Science Friday
Tuesday, July 27, 2010 - 8:00pm
Listen to Prof. Fink discussing fibers that perceive and transmit sound.
...
Prof. Fink and collaborators make fibers that hear and sing
Sunday, July 11, 2010 - 8:00pm
Prof. Yoel Fink and his collaborators have published their work on fibers that detect and produce sound (Nature Materials). Learn more about this research from the...
MIT Energy Initiative awards
Sunday, December 20, 2009 - 7:00pm
In October 2009, the MIT Energy Initiative (MITEI) announced its fourth round of seed grants supporting innovative, early-stage research projects across the Institute. Total funding of $1.7 million was awarded to 12 projects, each lasting between one and two years.
Recipients from DMSE...
Photodetecting fibers enable large area flexible image systems
Monday, November 2, 2009 - 7:00pm
Fabien Sorin, Ofer Shapira, Ayman Abouraddy, and Yoel Fink
Thin, long polymer fibers can be woven into 2D and 3D constructs and fabrics capable of radiation sensing and lensless imaging over unprecedented lengths.
Read the full article at...
Discovery News writes about smart fiber
Wednesday, July 22, 2009 - 8:00pm
By implanting light-sensitive, semiconducting materials into a single synthetic fiber, and then weaving that fiber into nearly one square foot of fabric, MIT scientists have created a flexible camera that has taken a picture of a smiley face. See...
Professor Hobbs holds an OBE, Order of the British Empire.
MIT SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING / DEPARTMENT OF MATERIALS SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
LinkedIn
Instagram