Skip to main content
Quick Links
The Campaign for UWA
Law School
UWA Website
The Sub-site
People
UWA Expertise
Structure
Intranet
Faculty home Current Students Staff
UWA Home Law School Research Postgraduate Research Profiles
Law School
Postgraduate Research Profiles
CONTACT
Michael Opie
Phone: (+61 8) 6488 2945
Fax: (+61 8) 6488 1045

SUPERVISORS
Professor Erika Techera
Professor Phillip Kastner
Professor Stephen Smith
START DATE
Aug 2014
SUBMISSION DATE
Aug 2018
Michael Opie
Thesis
Making every effort: How will China's engagement with the transnational epistemic community examining South China Sea issues affect its own understanding of its international legal interests and obligations.
Summary
The South China Sea Claimant states (“the Claimants”) have embraced their rights to maritime claims under international law but have neglected their concomitant obligations to resolve overlapping claims. The Claimants are all parties to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), which requires states to “make every effort” to enter “provisional arrangements of a practical nature” where they are otherwise unable to agree a final delimitation. Joint development arrangements have been widely used in similar circumstances but an obligation to pursue such arrangements has not crystallised as a rule of customary international law. In the South China Sea, a lack of political will is often understood to be the major obstacle to joint development.
China maintains the largest and most contested claim in the South China Sea. It has defended its claim assertively, but is also strongly engaged in a transnational community of state and non-state actors examining the dispute and possible solutions. China’s participation in this epistemic community is part of a concerted government effort to expand expertise in sea law and deploy “soft power” in support of its claims. But according to some theories of international law, China is as likely to be influenced by this process as it is to shape the debate.
The proposed research will examine the work of the governments, scholars, think tanks and institutes that constitute the South China Sea epistemic community, with a focus on China’s participation in that community. In the context of China’s evolving relationship with international law, the thesis will explore whether and how China’s institutes and scholars are moving towards an understanding of China’s interests that may include utilising and strengthening the international legal imperative towards joint development.
Why my research is important
The strategic, economic and cultural significance of the South China Sea to its littoral states has made it among the world’s most contested maritime spaces. The unresolved disputes have led to geo-political tensions, inadequate governance arrangements and developmental deficiencies in the region. Further, the potential security implications of the South China Sea disputes are grave, and could affect the vital economic interests of the Claimants and of the broader international community
Current scholarship on the legal issues surrounding the South China Sea has brought into focus the desirability of joint development arrangements, demonstrated their status as a developing norm of international law, and identified a lack of “political will” to apply the law. The proposed research is an original extension to these inquiries. It will ask whether, and how, the “political will” to apply international law can be manifest through a transnational legal process of socialising and internalising international legal norms. The research will also examine how international law, and the Claimants' understanding of their international legal obligations, can further evolve to make joint development of the South China Sea's maritime resources a more likely scenario.
Funding
Australian Postgraduate Award
UWA Safety Net Top Up Scholarship

Courses
About Us
90th Anniversary
Art in Law in Art Conference 2017
Executive Education
Research
Key research areas by staff
Art in Law in Art Conference
Applied Intellectual Property Research Network (AIPRN)
Centre for Indigenous Peoples and Community Justice
Contemporary Government and Regulation Research Hub
Crime Research Centre
Health Law and Ethics (HLE) Hub
Postgraduate Research Profiles
International Law Research Hub
Law and Society Research and Teaching Network (L&S-Net)
Mining, Energy and Natural Resources Law
Scholarship of Teaching and Learning in Law Group (SoTL)
Water Resources Reform
UWA Law Review
Alumni
Current Students
Contact us

The University of Western Australia
UWA Home
Future UWA Students
Current UWA Students
UWA Staff
Business and industry
Alumni and Friends
Media
Give now to UWA
Law School
Courses
About Us
90th Anniversary
Art in Law in Art Conference 2017
Executive Education
Research
UWA Law Review
Alumni
Current Students
Contact us
University information CRICOS Code: 00126G
Accessibility
Campus map
Contact the University
Indigenous Commitment
Terms of use
This Page
Last updated:
Tuesday, 8 September, 2015 10:33 AM

Website Feedback:
enquiries@law.uwa.edu.au

http://www.law.uwa.edu.au/2471898