Cookies on the Trinity College Dublin website
By using this website you consent to the use of cookies in accordance with the Trinity cookie policy.
OK
Trinity College Dublin
Skip to main content.
Your query:
Top Level TCD Links
TCD Home
Faculties & Schools
Courses
Research
Services
Contact
A – Z
School of Pharmacy & Pharmaceutical Sciences
Faculty of Health Sciences
Search
Your query:
Go
Breadcrumb
You are here:
Site map
+
Home
+
Undergraduate
+
Postgraduate
Five-Year Integrated Pharmacy Programme (M.Pharm)
+
International
+
Our Research
+
Safety
+
Staff
Alumni
Strategic Advisory Board
+
News & Events
Contact us
Facebook
Twitter
Sitemap
Health Sciences Faculty
Associate Professor Helen Sheridan
Natural Products and Drug Discovery
 Assoc. Prof. Helen Sheridan B. Sc., M.A (JO)
 Associate Professor
 Email: hsheridn@tcd.ie
 Phone: +353-1-896-2828
 Location: Panoz Institute, Trinity College, Dublin 2, Ireland.
Director of Research,
School of Pharmacy Disability Liaison Officer,
College and Faculty (Chemical) Safety representative and Module Coordinator.
  RESEARCH INTERESTS
Helen Sheridan graduated with distinction from University College Dublin where she was awarded her B. Sc (1980) and Ph. D (1983). After her PhD she completed Post-doctoral work with Nobel Laureate Professor Sir Derek Barton at Gif-Sur-Yvette Paris; Professor Sir Jack Baldwin at the Dyson Perrin’s Laboratories, where she held an 1851 Research Fellowship. Helen was appointed to the School of Pharmacy at Trinity College Dublin in 1985.
Helen’s research interests lie in the area of Natural Product Drug Discovery (terrestrial, marine, in vitro cultures), Ethnopharmacology and Metabolomic and Genomic Approaches to establishing international guidelines for the Quality, Safety and Efficacy of traditional Herbal Medicinal Products. Helen has supervised Post-graduate and post-doctoral students in these areas. Helen was appointed to the Herbal medicines sub-committee of the Health Products Regulatory Authority (HPRA) where acts as the phytochemical expert (2006- to date). Helen holds several senior positions in Trinity College and also acts as an international external examiner and reviewer to a number of academic and grant awarding bodies. Helen is a co-Founder of Trino Therapeutics Ltd., a TCD campus company which has now brought a project from her TCD research labs to Phase 1 clinical trials. Trino Therapeutics’ main funders are the Wellcome Trust and VC Fountain Healthcare Ltd. Helen is also involved in Development s. her research interests in this field lie in the area of Global health, ethnomedicine and factors that impact in health. Helen has supervised a number of M. Sc theses in this area.
PUBLICATIONS
Publications
    Last updated 14 November 2016
by
School of Pharmacy & Pharmaceutical Sciences (Email)
.
Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin, College Green, Dublin 2
Central Switchboard: +353 1 896 1000.
Accessibility Privacy Disclaimer Contact