Quick Links
McGill University
Ingram School of Nursing
Main navigation
Home
About
Future Students
Faculty/Staff
Current Students
Programs
Research
Community
Alumni/Friends
McGill.CA / INGRAM SCHOOL OF NURSING / Faculty/Staff
Section navigation
Cheryl Armistead
Antonia Arnaert
Josée Bonneau
Madeleine Buck
Franco Carnevale
Annie Chevrier
Maria Di Feo
Elaine Doucette
Nancy Feeley
Francoise Filion
Anita Gagnon
Diana Gausden
Céline Gélinas
Laurie Gottlieb
Catherine Gros
Heather Hart
Sylvie Lambert
Sandie Larouche
Mélanie Lavoie-Tremblay
Carmen Loiselle
Christine Maheu
Linda McHarg
Norma Ponzoni
Margaret Purden
Lia Sanzone
Sonia Semenic
Jodi Tuck
Argerie Tsimicalis
Clinical faculty and affiliated members
Elaine Doucette
Assistant Professor (Professional)
Assistant Director, Ingram School of Nursing, and
Bachelor of Nursing (Integrated) Program Director
Clinical Associate, St. Mary's Hospital Centre
Clinical Nurse Specialist, Cardiovascular Care
Telephone: (514) 398-2630
elaine.doucette@mcgill.ca
  ELAINE DOUCETTE, RN, BScN, MScN, is an Assistant Professor in the Ingram School of Nursing, Faculty of Medicine, McGill University. Prior to coming to McGill University in 2005, she held positions as a Clinical Nurse Specialist in Cardiovascular and Critical Care units at the MUHC and at St. Mary's Hospital Centre.
Professor Doucette is also currently an Assistant Director of the Ingram School of Nursing; the Undergraduate Program Director for the Bachelor of Nursing Integrated Program; and sits on various McGill University committees. She has an extensive background in cardiovascular and critical care, and while completing her graduate studies, she further developed this expertise with respect to working with patients and their families. Her thesis was entitled, The Impact of Social Support on Living with Heart Failure. She currently teaches in the undergraduate BSc(N)and BN(I) programs in the areas of Medical/Surgical and High Acuity Nursing.
She is the recipient of the McGill University Faculty of Medicine Excellence in Teaching Award 2015, as well, she was recently awarded the Canadian Association of Critical Care Nurses (CACCN) 2015 First Place Editorial Award For the Article “Silent witnesses: Student nurses’ perspectives of advocacy and end-of-life care in the intensive care unit”.  She has presented in several venues across Canada and the USA and has been published in various journals.
Her ongoing research interests include creating research opportunities for undergraduate students.  Her current research project is a study looking at, “Nurse’s sense of preparedness to engage in euthanasia care”.
To view Elaine Doucette's publications, visit the School of Nursing's Research/Publications page.
Department and University Information
Column 1
Column 2
Column 3
Ingram School of Nursing
Wilson Hall 3506 University Street
Montreal, QC, Canada H3A 2A7
Tel.: 514-398-4144
Fax: 514-398-8455
Sign in (site maintenance)
Copyright © 2017 McGill University