Vanderbilt University Blair School of Music
VANDERBILT HOME
NAVIGATE VU
TOOLS
SEARCH VU
HOME
ADMISSIONS
Admissions Overview
How to Apply
Programs of Study
Schedule a Visit
Alumni News
Contact Us
DEPARTMENTS
Brass & Percussion
Chamber Music
Composition & Theory
Folk
Jazz
Keyboard
Music Education (Ma5)
Musicology & Ethnomusicology
Strings & Harp
Voice
Woodwinds
ENSEMBLES
Blair Brass Quintet
Blair String Quartet
Blair Woodwind Quintet
Blakemore Trio
Vanderbilt Choirs
Vanderbilt Orchestra & Wind Symphony
ACADEMICS
Academic Services
Freshmen & Transfers
Not a Music Major?
Class Auditing - Faculty & Staff
Scheduling & Reservations
Student Council
Sexual Misconduct Resources
ALUMNI
About our Alumni & Friends
Giving to Blair
KeyBoard
Patrons Society
PRECOLLEGE & ADULTS
Important Links for Precollege & Adult Students
Register
Scholarships & Financial Aid
Children's Chorus Program
Nashville Youth Orchestra Program
Suzuki Program
Precollege Certificate Program
Kindermusik
Parking at Blair
ABOUT

Admissions Overview
Mission Statement
Meet our Faculty
Administration & Staff
News
Facilities
Contact Information
Email
Website
Tyler Nelson
Associate Professor of Voice
Tyler Nelson is one of America’s most promising young tenors. Already enjoying success in a wide variety of concert repertoire, his recent engagements have included performance of the Britten Serenade with the Utah Valley Symphony, Beethoven’s 9th Symphony with the Saginaw Bay Symphony, Mozart Requiem and Bach’s St. John Passion with Salt Lake City Choral Artists, and Orff’s Carmina Burana with the California and Reno Symphonies. He has also appeared as a soloist on the stages of the Kennedy Center and at Carnegie Hall.
Nelson also has a wide range of operatic experience. During successive seasons with Ohio Light Opera, Arts blog CoolCleveland.com commented of his performance: "Tyler Nelson, as that erstwhile clergyman, could steal the show if he tried. As it was, he nearly brought down the house with I Aim to Please." Opera News, reviewing a recording of Maytime, called his singing "mellifluous."
A frequent performer at the Castleton Festival, under the baton of Maestro Lorin Maazel, Nelson has performed the roles of: Male Chorus in Rape of Lucretia, Gherardo and Rinuccio in Gianni Schiichi, the Mayor in Alber Herring, Maese Pedro in El retablo del Maese Pedro, Father in 7 Deadly Sins, La Rainette in L’enfant et les sortileges and Almaviva in Barbiere di Siviglia, which he performed at the Castleton Festival and with the National Center for the performing arts in Beijing, China.
His international debut was in Mazatlan, Mexico, performing the role of Shallow in Gordon Getty’s Plump Jack, under the direction of the composer. Robert Commanday of San Francisco Classical Voice said of Mr. Nelson’s performance: "Tyler Nelson, a young tenor living in Florida, did a captivating number on Justice Shallow. His diction was impeccable and his animation as the silly, ridiculous squire won for him alone laughs that were independent of the lines. His bright, keenly focused, vibrant tenor invites Mozart. He has a big future."
Recent seasons have included debuts with Chicago Opera Theater in the role of Delfa for their production of Giasone, and a return for their production of Médée. Of his performance in Giasone, Mark Thomas Ketterson of Opera News commented: "Tyler Nelson was hilarious as a travesti Delfa, managing the passaggio of his tenor with notable skill and looking for all the world like Mollie Sugden’s Mrs. Slocombe on Are You Being Served?" Venus Zarris of Chicago Stage Review stated that: "Tyler Nelson commits comic operatic highway robbery by embodying all that is hysterical about drag, as Delfa the maidservant to Medea, while simultaneously delivering some of the production’s most superb singing."
Upcoming engagements include a return to the Castleton festival as Gonzalve in L’heure espagnole, and a debut with Opera Omaha as Trin in La fanciulla del West.
Instruments
Voice
RECENT NEWS
  Photos from Blair
Your Vanderbilt
Alumni
Current Students
Faculty & Staff
International Students
Media
Parents & Family
Prospective Students
Researchers
Sports Fans
Visitors & Neighbors
  Connect with Blair
Twitter
Facebook
YouTube
iTunesU
Flickr
RSS Feed
© 2017 Vanderbilt University Blair School of Music.
2400 Blakemore Ave · Nashville, TN 37212-3499 · (615) 322-7651
Site Development: University Web Communications