Accessibility links
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
Skip to footer
Search
LEARN
RESEARCH
CONNECT
EXPLORE
Login
Toggle search
Dr Kenneth Young
Breadcrumbs
... Structure Faculty of Science, Health, Education and Engineering Staff
Welcome from the Executive Dean
School of Education
School of Health and Sport Sciences
School of Nursing, Midwifery and Paramedicine
School of Science and Engineering
Preparatory and Enabling Unit
Staff
Contact the Faculty of Science, Health, Education and Engineering
Lecturer, Education and Program Coordinator, Graduate Diploma in Education (Primary) and Graduate Diploma in Education (Secondary)
PhD, Sunshine Coast., MEd S.Qld., GCCompEd Griff., BEd C.Qld., DipTeach(ManArts) BCAE.
EMAIL
kyoung@usc.edu.au
TELEPHONE
+61 7 5459 4808
FAX
+61 7 5456 5004
OFFICE LOCATION
C2.13
USC Research Bank: Dr Kenneth Young's publications
Teaching areas
Preservice Teacher Professional Learning
Educational Sociology
History of Education
Research areas
preservice teacher education
history of education
Program coordinator
Master of Teaching (Secondary)
Profile
Dr Kenneth Young is the Program Coordinator for Graduate Diploma in Education (Secondary). He has been a lecturer at the University of the Sunshine Coast since 2007. Kenneth worked for Education Queensland as an Industrial Technology and Design teacher from 1985 until 2006. During this time, he taught in a number of rural, remote and provincial locations throughout Queensland. He was the Program Coordinator for the secondary combined degree programs between 2009 and 2011. He is currently the Program Coordinator for the Graduate Diploma in Education.
Kenneth’s engagement projects include:
Collaboration with colleagues from the State University of New York (SUNY) Fredonia campus to provide Preservice teacher exchange programs.
Recruitment of preservice teachers in Ontario, Canada.
Collaboration with school principals on preservice teacher transition to employment pathways.
Kenneth’s current doctoral research focus is on preservice teacher education - in particular, the perspectives of preservice teachers on the roles and identities of secondary teachers within Queensland state schools.
Kenneth’s research interests center on the history of education and schooling in Australia.
Professional memberships
Queensland College of Teachers
Australian Teacher Educators Association
Australian and New Zealand History of Education Society
Awards
Queensland Premier's Smart State Award for Teacher Excellence (2005)
Maps and directions
Campus security and emergencies
A-Z Directory
Online payments
Website feedback
askUSC
Contact us
Accessibility  Copyright Disclaimer Privacy Right to information
Last updated: 16 May 2017
ABN 28 441 859 157
CRICOS Provider No. 01595D
The University of the Sunshine Coast acknowledges the Traditional Custodians of the land on which its campuses sit. We recognise and pay respect to Elders past, present and emerging.