Mizzou Logo
School of Social Work
University of Missouri
Resources for: Students | Alumni & Friends | Faculty
College of Human Environmental Sciences
Home
About
Academics
Field Education
Research
Outreach
People
Giving
News
Jobs
Contact
In This Section
Faculty Profiles
Staff Directory
Alexandria Lewis
Alexandria M. Lewis, MSW, EdS
Clinical Instructor
704 Clark Hall
School of Social Work
University of Missouri
Columbia, MO 65211-4470
Phone: (573) 884-2336
Fax: [573] 882-8926
E-mail: lewisale@missouri.edu
Curriculum Vitae (PDF)
Education:
EdS, University of Missouri, 2016; MSW, University of Missouri, 2005; BSW, Central Missouri State University, 2003.
Research Interests:
Death, Grief, Loss, and Bereavement; Hospice Care; Death Education; Educational Technology; Online Learning.
Teaching Interests:
Death, Grief, and Loss; Gerontology; Mental Health & Older Adults; Military & Veterans.
Awards:
2016 Excellence in Teaching with Technology for Graduate/Professional Teaching, MU Educational Technologies.
Research and Scholarly Activity:
Ms. Lewis’ focus area is educational technology and online learning as it relates to Social Work curriculum. This interest led her to seek graduate level education in online education through the MU School of Information Science & Learning Technologies (SISLT). In 2014, she earned a Graduate Certificate in Online Education. To further enhance her knowledge and skills in this area, she earned an Educational Specialist degree (EdS) with an emphasis in Educational Technology.
In particular, Ms. Lewis is interested in ways to enhance student learning in the online environment. She is fascinated with the research on this topic and finds ways to integrate the research into her teaching. She received an award from the Mizzou ET@MO Teaching with Technology Innovative Fund (TTIF) to incorporate a digital lesson creator program into her course lessons. She utilizes this program with media, written content, and self-check activities including "quiz poppers" for her classes.
Ms. Lewis is also interested in ways to incorporate active learning into the online classroom. By incorporating activities within the course lesson, her hope is that students will feel more active and engaged in their learning. Through self-check activities, students have the opportunity to evaluate their own learning for course lesson content.
School of Social Work
729 Clark Hall, Columbia, MO 65211
ssw@missouri.edu   (573) 882-6206   (573) 882-8926
Social Media:       
© Copyright 2017 - Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information. An equal opportunity/access/affirmative action/pro-disabled and veteran employer. Disability Resources. Published by the College of Human Environmental Sciences.