The University of Southampton
Courses
Undergraduate
Postgraduate taught
Postgraduate research
Foundation Years
How to apply
Free online learning
Continuing professional development
Prospectuses
Pre-sessional English language courses
University life
Choose Southampton
Fees & funding
Accommodation
International students
Study abroad & exchange
Campus life
City life
Careers & employability
Arts
Learning & teaching
Key dates
Research
Our impact
Facilities
Centres and institutes
Funding
Research & Innovation Services
Partnerships
Commercialising research
Researcher support
Research integrity
Business
Why work with us?
Collaboration
Consultancy
Commercialisation
Use our facilities
Connect with our students
How we operate
Suppliers
Make a business enquiry
Global
International Office
Partnerships map
Partnerships and initiatives
Visiting fellowships
Accessibility Tools
About
Visit
Alumni
Departments
News
Events
Contact
×
Medicine
Who we are
Our research
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
International
Enterprise
Academic units
Our alumni
Outreach
Our news, events & seminars
Contact us
Right
Our staff
Our approach
Achievements
What our students think
Executive team
International links
Home
>Medicine>Who we are>Our staff
Phone:
(023) 8120 5246
Email:
jcs@soton.ac.uk
Professor Jonathan Strefford BSc., PCCC, PhD
Professor in Cancer Molecular Genetics
Related links
Professor Jonathan Strefford is Professor in Cancer Molecular Genetics within Medicine at the University of Southampton.
Professor Jonathan Strefford is a Professor in Cancer Molecular Genetics in the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Southampton. After two years NHS training in clinical cytogenetics, Jon started his postgraduate education with a Ph.D. in Cancer Genetics and Genetic Toxicology at the University of Wales, Swansea. In 2000, he started his postdoctoral careers, working with Professor Bryan Young at the Cancer Research UK Medical Oncology Laboratory at St Bartholomew’s Hospital, London. In 2002, he received a Lectureship from Queen Mary and Westfield College, University of London, prior to a move to the University of Southampton. In 2008, after four years working with Professor Christine Harrison, Jon was awarded a Personal Fellowship from Leukaemia and Lymphoma Research and a Senior Lectureship within the Faculty of Medicine. Jon currently has a research group working on the genetic analysis of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) and splenic marginal zone lymphoma (SMZL).

To facilitate these research objectives, Professor Strefford has attracted more than £4.5 million in grant funding from national and international research agencies and charities. He has spoken at international meetings such as the American Society of Hematology and the American Association for Cancer Research. Professor Strefford acts as an editorial board member for a number of international scientific journals, and on a number of national and international scientific committees.

Professor Strefford has extensive experience as a consultant for commercial companies, facilitating the development of FISH and microarray products. He also has strong links with the pharmaceutical industry and acts as a consultant and contract research provider for a series of large international clinical trials.

Dr Strefford’s Linkedin and ResearchGate profiles.
Cancer Genomics Group Facebook Page
Qualifications
BSc., Biological Sciences, University of Plymouth (1994)
PCCC, Association of Clinical Cytogenetics (1996)
Ph.D. Genetic Toxicology, University of Wales Swansea (2000)
Appointments held
Professor in Cancer Molecular Genetics, Cancer Sciences Academic Unit, Faculty of Medicine, University of Southampton (2015- to date)
Reader and Group Leader, Cancer Sciences Academic Unit, Faculty of Medicine, University of Southampton (2012- 2014)
Honorary Clinical Scientist, Wessex Regional Genetics Laboratory, Salisbury District Hospital (2006- to date)
Honorary Senior Biomedical Scientist, Department of Pathology, Royal Bournemouth Hospital (2012- to date)
Previous appointments held
Senior Lecturer and Group Leader, Cancer Sciences Academic Unit, Faculty of Medicine, University of Southampton (2008-2012)
Senior Research Fellow, Cancer Sciences Academic Unit, Faculty of Medicine, University of Southampton (2004-2008)
Lecturer in Molecular Oncology, CRUK Department of Medical Oncology, Institute of Cancer, Queen Mary and Westfield College (2002-2004)
Research Fellow, CRUK Medical Oncology Unit, St Bartholomew’s Hospital, London (1999-2002)
Research
Responsibilities
Publications
Teaching
Contact
Research interests
Professor Strefford’s research has focused on the identification and characterization of genomic defects in cancer cells. Genomic abnormalities are the hallmark of human cancer and can aid in appropriate patient management. The presence of these genomic alterations can have utility as Biomarkers by providing guidance on the most appropriate treatment regime and identify those patients likely to develop progressive disease or those that might exhibit limited response to treatment.

The research projects coordinated by Professor Strefford include:
Biomarker Discovery: Using whole genome analysis for copy number changes and sequence mutations to screen clinically-informative leukaemia and lymphoma cohorts.
Biomarker Validation: Using target molecular and NGS technologies to determine the clinical impact of genomic lesions on the patient survival and response to treatment, particularly in the clinical trials context.
Functional Analysis: Using in vitro and in vivo model systems we assess the role of novel genetic lesions in the pathophysiology of B-cell neoplams.
Funding
Cragg M, Beers SA, Johnson P, Davies A, Strefford JC (2013) Optimizing antibody treatment for patients with lymphoma. Leukaemia and Lymphoma Research Specialist Programme Grant (£1.3Million)
Strefford JC, Steele A, Cragg M, Vorechovsky I (2012) Importance of SF3B1 mutations in the diagnosis, prognosis and biology of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. Leukaemia and Lymphoma Research Project Grant (£230K)
Strefford JC (2012) The importance of novel genetic lesions in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. Bournemouth Leukaemia Fund PhD Studentship (£100K)
Strefford JC, Davies A (2012) FC Receptor analysis in the ROCHE GOYA Trial. ROCHE Pharmaceuticals Project Grant (£130K)
Strefford JC, Collins A, Oscier DG (2012) The identification and characterization of novel genetic lesions associated with clinical outcome in patients with Splenic Marginal Zone Lymphoma. Leukaemia and Lymphoma Research Project Grant (£170K)
Cross NC, Sahota S, Tapper W, Strefford JC (2012) Development and application of a bioinformatic pipeline to identify somatic mutations by exome sequencing. Leukaemia and Lymphoma Research Project Grant (£230K)
Strefford JC, Davies A (2012) FC Receptor analysis in the ROCHE Gallium Trial. ROCHE Pharmaceuticals Project Grant (£130K)
Glennie MJ, Williams T, Johnson PJ, Roghanian A, Strefford JC, Beers S, Reading I (2011) Improving the predictive capacity of in vitro cytokine release assays to reduce animal use and drug attrition. NC3R/SRBI - CRACK-IT (£500K)
Strefford JC, Oscier DG, Packham GP (2011) The genetics and functional characterization of novel genetic lesions in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. Leukaemia and Lymphoma Research Project Grant (£200K)
Strefford JC, Collins A, Oscier DG, Packham G (2011) The development of next generation sequencing for the analysis of B cell tumours: Understanding disease progression in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. Wessex Medical Research PhD studentship (£80K)
Pepper C, Baird D, Oscier DG, Strefford JC (2011) Telomere length as a biomarker of genomic instability and predictor of response to treatment. Cancer Research UK - The Biomarkers and Imaging Discovery and Development Committee (£200K)
Strefford JC, Collins A, Oscier DG (2011) The genetic analysis of patients with progressive CLL using next generation sequencing. Kay Kendell Leukaemia Fund Project Grant (£190K)
Group Members (current)
Professor Jonathan Strefford – Professor in Cancer Molecular Genetics and Group Leader
Dr Helen Parker – Senior Postdoctoral Research Fellow (CLL Genomics)
Dr Matthew Rose-Zerilli – Senior Postdoctoral Research Fellow (CLL Genomics)
Dr Marina Parry – Postdoctoral Research Fellow (SMZL Genomics)
Dr Marta Larrayoz – Postdoctoral Research Fellow (Functional analysis of SF3B1)
Dr Chantal Hargreaves – Postdoctoral Research Fellow (FCGR Genetics)
Dr Chisako Iriyama – Visiting Clinician Scientist (Japan)
Mr Anton Parker – Visiting Scientist (Royal Bournemouth Hospital)
Miss Jade Forster – Graduate Student (CLL Genomics)
Mr Stuart Blakemore – Graduate Student (Functional analysis of SF3B1)

Group Members (past)
Mr Miqdad Rajibali – Welcome Trust PhD Student
Mr Lee Brown – Visiting Masters Student (Cranfield University)
Mr Alistair McIntosh – Visiting Undergraduate Project Student (Birmingham University)
Dr Qian An – Postdoctoral Fellow (now at Portsmouth University)
Academic unit(s)
Cancer Sciences Academic Unit
Affiliate academic unit(s)
Cancer Sciences Research group





































Share this profile
Facebook Google+ Twitter Weibo
Information for
Visitors
Staff & students
Schools & colleges
Researchers
Employers & recruiters
Parents & guardians
Students from outside UK/EU
Contact us
+44(0)23 8059 5000
+44(0)23 8059 3131
Address
University of Southampton
University Road
Southampton
SO17 1BJ
United Kingdom
Get directions ›
Connect with us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
LinkedIn
YouTube
Download University of Southampton prospectus
Download a PDF of our prospectus or order a printed copy to be delivered to your door.
Download a prospectus
© 2017 University of Southampton
Site map
Freedom of information
Terms & conditions
Contact
Jobs
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue without changing your settings, we will assume that you are happy to receive cookies on the University of Southampton website.
×