School of Education
People
Pages
A to Z Index
Directory
QUICKLINKS
Instructional Design and Technology
Programs
Courses
Faculty
Semester Schedule
Students
Professional Links
ITSA
Instructional Design and Technology
Katherine S. Cennamo
Professor
Ph.D.
Bio
Courses
Research Interests
Publications
Dr. Katherine Cennamo is a professor of education specializing in Instructional Design and Technology. She earned a Ph.D. in Instructional Technology from the University of Texas at Austin. To date she has authored or coauthored more than 60 journal articles, book chapters, textbooks, published conference proceedings, and entries in reference works. Dr. Cennamo has also developed more than 100 instructional webpages, software, and videos. She has contributed greatly to the field by presenting at many national and international conferences.
In addition to being actively involved in research and teaching, Dr. Cennamo also engages in service activities. She has held an associate editor position for the Journal of Computers in Math and Science Teaching. She currently reviews manuscripts for the Interdisciplinary Journal of Problem-based Learning and Journal of Visual Literacy. She has consulted and conducted workshops for a variety of private and public organizations, such as K-12 schools, Public Broadcasting Services, community colleges, and video production companies. Finally, Dr. Cennamo has garnered numerous honors and awards in recognition of her exemplary professional contributions. She received the XCaliber Team Award and the XCaliber Certificate of Excellence for exemplary contributions to course development using technology. Dr. Cennamo’s contributions through teaching, research, and service enrich the Virginia Tech School of Education community.
Education
Ph.D.  Instructional Technology, University of Texas at Austin, 1989
M.A.  Educational Media, University of Arizona, 1980
B.A.  Elementary Education, Virginia Tech, 1976
Curriculum Vitae
Curriculum Vitae 
540-231-9122
cennamo@vt.edu
Virginia Tech, School of Education
201 War Memorial Hall
Blacksburg, VA 24061
USA
Virginia Tech School of Education Library Bookstore Jobs at VT Equal Opportunity Principles of Community Acceptable Use Policy Accessibility
© 2017 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University