CAMPAIGN
EVENTS
NEWS
CONTACT
Fellows & Staff
Fellows
Staff
SCR Meal Booking
Fellows' Guest Rooms
Teaching and Meeting Rooms
Policies
Vacancies
Dr Maria Stamatopoulou
Tutorial Fellow in Classical Archaeology and Art, Senior Dean
01865 287354
maria.stamatopoulou@lincoln.ox.ac.uk

Dr Maria Stamatopoulou
Tutorial Fellow in Classical Archaeology and Art, Senior Dean
Academic Profile

I am a University Lecturer in Classical Art and Archaeology and a Fellow of Classical Archaeology at Lincoln. I organize undergraduate teaching in College for the BA in Classical Archaeology and Ancient History, and teach the options in Greek art and archaeology of the first millennium BC to undegraduate and graduate students of the University. I also lecture for the University on the same topics.

Before I came to Lincoln as a Career Development Fellow in 2002 I had held a post-doctoral fellowship of the Greek Scholarships Foundation (IKY) in Athens (2001-2) and a Junior Research Fellowship and British Academy Fellowship at Somerville College (British Academy Reckitt Travelling Fellowship 2000-2001, Mary Somerville JRF (1997-2000). I completed my graduate studies at Oxford (MSt and DPhil) as a scholar of the Greek State Scholarships Foundation (by examination), with the additional financial support of the A.G. Leventis Foundation, the I.F. Kostopoulos Foundation, the Aris and Lilian Voudouris Foundation and the T.W. Greene Award of the University of Oxford. 

Research interests

My research interests are in Greek archaeology from roughly the Archaic to the Late Hellenistic Periods (6th-1st centuries BC), with particular emphasis on central and northern Greece (Thessaly and Macedonia). My doctoral dissertation on Thessaly discussed the funerary archaeology of the region. My interest in Thessaly has since expanded to include research on its urban development, athletics, interactions with Macedonia and the rest of the Greek world, and art (painting, terracottas, jewellery).

Since 2001, I have been engaged in the study and publication of the excavations conducted by the Archaological Society of Athens in the early 20th century, in the cemeteries of two major Thessalian cities, Demetrias and Pharsalos. Demetrias, modern Volos, was a major port in the Hellenistic period, a military stronghold for the Macedonian kings and a major commercial centre, while Pharsalos was a more typical Thessalian city - governed by an extreme oligarchy - with power in the hands of the landowning elite.

Besides research on various aspects of the material culture of Thessaly and Macedonia, I like organizing seminars and conferences at Oxford on Greek archaeology, two of which have been published by Archaeopress.
Â 
Publications and projects

Edited Books:

(with M. Yeroulanou), Excavating Classical Culture: Recent Archaeological Discoveries in Greece. Oxford: Beazley Archive and Archaeopress, 2002.

(with M. Yeroulanou), Architecture and Archaeology in the Cyclades. Papers in Honour of J.J. Coulton. Oxford: Archaeopress/British Archaeological Reports, 2005.


Articles:

Thessalian aristocracy and society in the age of epinician, in S. Hornblower and C. Morgan (eds),Â  Pindar's Poetry, Patrons and Festivals: From Archaic Greece to the Roman Empire, Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2007, 309-341.

With R. Parker, 'A new funerary gold leaf from Pherai', Archaeologike Ephemeris 2004, 1-32.

'Thessalians abroad, the case of Pharsalos' in: I. Malkin, C. Constantakopoulou and K. Panagopoulou (eds.), Networks in the Ancient Mediterranean, Special issue of the Mediterranean Historical Review, vol. 22.2, 2007 (in press) - will also be published as: Networks in the Ancient Mediterranean (Routledge: 30 June 2008).

''Totenmahl' reliefs of the 4th-2nd centuries BC and the archaeology of feasting in a funerary context' in O. Hekster and S. Mols (eds), Cultural Messages in Ancient Greece and Rome (BABesch Supplement: Peeters publisher - in press).

'Funerary sanctuaries in Thessaly: Fact or Fiction?' in: Opuscula Atheniensia (forthcoming).

'Ouaphres Horou, an Egyptian priest of Isis from Demetrias' in: D.C. Kurtz, C. Meyer, D. Sauders, A. Tsingarida and N. Harris (eds.), Essays in Classical Archaeology for Eleni Hatzivassiliou 1977-2007 (Oxford: Beazley Archive and Archaeopress - in press)


Another sunny day, another sunny quad #lincolncollege #chapelquad #heatwaveuk pic.twitter.com/OvlFAZQXJO... about 8 hours ago
< >
powered by tank | web design by rare form | Lincoln College is a Registered Charity no. 1139261