Skip to Main Content

Department of Anthropology
College of Arts and Letters
anthro@mail.sdsu.edu (619) 594-5527
HOME
UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAM
GRADUATE PROGRAM
PEOPLE

NEWS AND EVENTS
RESOURCES
Dr. Elisa Sobo
Professor
Office: AL-411 | Phone: (619) 594-6591 | Email: esobo@mail.sdsu.edu
Website | Curriculum Vitae (.pdf)
Elisa (EJ) Sobo, Professor of Anthropology, is a sociocultural anthropologist. Presently President of the Society for Medical Anthropology, Dr. Sobo specializes in health, illness, and medicine. A longstanding member of the editorial boards of Anthropology and Medicine, Medical Anthropology, and Medical Anthropology Quarterly, co-editor of the Rutgers Series in Childhood Studies, Dr. Sobo is a prolific author herself. Her areas of expertise include childhood and child health, biomedical and other medical/health cultures, organizational issues in healthcare, patient-provider communication, disparities and cultural competence in health care, health-related stigma and identity, risk perception, nutrition and foodways, and qualitative methods (including both ethnographic and rapid assessment methods). Dr. Sobo's most recent work concerns how ethnomedical understandings about healthy child development affect educational strategies and standards. She also has worked recently on the question of pediatric vaccination. Her newest project concerns parents’ use of cannabis-based therapies for children with intractable epilepsy/seizures. Dr. sobo is keen to involve students in her research as a compliment to classroom teaching; her core courses include Medical Anthropology and Anthropology of Childhood. Dr. Sobo also teaches The Dynamics of Biocultural Diversity, both online and for the Honors College.
Contact Us
Department of Anthropology | San Diego State University | 5500 Campanile Drive | San Diego, CA 92182-6040
Location: Arts and Letters 448 | Phone: (619) 594-5527 | Fax: (619) 594-1150 | Email: anthro@mail.sdsu.edu
Copyright © 2016 - All Rights Reserved

To view pdf files you may need to download Adobe Reader. | To view Microsoft Excel documents (xls) you may need to download Excel viewer. | To view Microsoft Word documents (doc) you may need to download Word viewer.