Skip to main content
The University of Iowa
Search
Make a Gift Contact Us
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
Classics
HOME ABOUT PEOPLE UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAM GRADUATE PROGRAM RESEARCH RESOURCES
You are here:
HomeGlenn Storey
People
Faculty
Staff
Emeritus Faculty
Graduate Students
Alumni
Alumni Fellows
Faculty Honors
Job Openings
Glenn Storey
Associate Professor
glenn-storey@uiowa.edu
Education: 
PhD, Pennsylvania State University
Office: 
210B Jefferson Building, 17B Macbride Hall
Phone: 
319-335-1866
Curriculum Vitae: 
View/Download File
  Glenn Storey holds a joint appointment as associate professor of Classics and Anthropology. He has been at The University of Iowa since 1994. He teaches courses in classical languages, classical culture, archaeology and topics of the ancient world in general. His publications include an edited volume, Urbanism in the Preindustrial World: Cross-Cultural Approaches, published by the University of Alabama Press in 2006. Professor Storey's research interests are Mediterranean archaeology, the interfacing of text and archaeology for the Greco-Roman world, Roman demography, and the economy of the Roman empire. He is involved in fieldwork in Nijmegen, the Netherlands, and Gangivecchio in Sicily. He received an A.B. in Ancient Greek from Columbia University, an Honours B.A. in Classical Greats from Oxford University, an M.A. in Anthropology from The Pennsylvania State University, an M.A. (honorary) from Oxford University, and a Ph.D. in Anthropology from The Pennsylvania State University.
The University of Iowa
Department of Classics
210 Jefferson Building
Iowa City, Iowa 52242-1418
Phone:
319-335-2323
Fax:
319-335-3884 classics@uiowa.edu Login
Facebook
NOTICE: The State University of Iowa Foundation is a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt organization soliciting tax-deductible private contributions for the benefit of The University of Iowa. Please review its full disclosure statement http://www.uifoundation.org/about/disclosures/.
GIVE TO CLASSICS
Privacy Information  |  Emergency Information  |  Nondiscrimination Statement