LOGIN
SEARCH
MENU
STUDY
RESEARCH
PARTNER
NEWS & EVENTS
Login
Dr Craig Phillips
Lecturer in Nursing School of Nursing and Midwifery
City East Campus (C5-35) tel +61 8 830 22174
email Craig.Phillips@unisa.edu.au
Available for media comment Research Degree Supervisor
About me
Welcome to all who may read my staff page. I have been at UniSA since 2005, and prior to this have been engaged in the higher education sector for a number of years. I have worked in the roles of clinical tutor, sessional tutor, clinical faciltiator and lecturer. I am based within the Bachelor of Nursing (BN) program at City East campus. I currently coordinate ( both primary and associate role) courses in the second year of the undergraduate degree around the acute assessment and management of the adult and care requirements addressing the concerns of chronic illness in the older adult, with an emphasis of having these persons well enough to be as independent as possible. I have had 25 years experience working as a registered, clincal, and ... Read more
School of Nursing and Midwifery
The School’s innovative curriculum produces graduates with the skills needed by the health industry, now and into the future.
Orcid
Scopus
ResearcherID
About me
Professional associations
Experience
Research
Research focus
Nursing Specialist Studies in Education Clinical Placement Models in Nursing Curriculum and Pedagogy Education and Educational Research
Highlights
I have a strong interest in current work force planning pertaining to the educational preparation of registered nurses and midwives for future beginning graduate practice. This looks at the models of clinical placement, the networks that are present with industry partners, and preparing students to be work ready.,My PhD research pertains to final year undergraduate nursing and midwifery students and their pre-registration paid employment choice, i.e. the part-time work that they choose to support themselves during their nursing studies. The research determined any link between a specific paid employment type ( or no employment at all) and sucessful transition to graduate practice as a registered nurse or midwife is largely arbitary.... Read more
Projects
Outputs
Current research & highlights
External engagement & recognition
Collaborations
Collaborations
External engagement & recognition
Teaching & student supervision
Highlights
My teaching interested are wide and varied. I am currently working with second year nursing students in the areas of adult and older adult nursing. These courses focus on injury and illness prevention, assessment and management of chronic diseases, and utilise a holistic focus to care when adressing systems issues. I also teach in foundation courses within the first year of the undergraduate nursing degree, and have recently coordinated the final course prior to graduation.
Courses and programs
Research degree supervision
International Students
Enquire online
+613 9627 4854
Further contact details
Australian Students
Make an enquiry
08 8302 2376
Further contact details
General Enquiries
08 8302 6611
Further contact details
Links & legal
CRICOS Provider no 00121B
Web accessibility
Disclaimers
Privacy Statement
Copyright 2014
Connect with UniSA Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram
UniSA respects the Kaurna, Boandik and Barngarla peoples’ spiritual relationship with their country.