ABOUT

PROGRAMS

EXECUTIVE EDUCATION
FACULTY & RESEARCH


ALUMNI
Publications
Working Papers
Books by Faculty
Faculty Experts Guide
Faculty Blogs
Kellogg Insight
Kellogg Case Publishing
Faculty Awards
Faculty Editors
Academic Departments & Strategic Initiatives
Research Centers
Research Seminars
Contact
Faculty Search
Home  Faculty and Research  Brian Uzzi
Brian Uzzi
MANAGEMENT & ORGANIZATIONS
Richard L. Thomas Professor of Leadership and Organizational Change
Co-Director, Northwestern Institute on Complex Systems (NICO)
Faculty Director, Kellogg Architectures of Collaboration Initiative (KACI)
Professor of Industrial Engineering and Management Sciences, McCormick School (Courtesy)
Professor of Sociology, Weinberg College (Courtesy)
Overview
Vita
Research
Teaching
Brian Uzzi is a globally recognized scientist, teacher, consultant and speaker on leadership, social networks, and big data. He is the Richard L. Thomas Professor of Leadership and Organizational Change at the Kellogg School of Management, and professor of sociology and professor of engineering at the McCormick School of Engineering.  At Northwestern, he is also codirector of NICO, the Northwestern Institute on Complex Systems and the director of the Kellogg Architectures of Collaboration Initiative (KACI).  Besides his positions at Kellogg, he has been on or visited the faculties of Harvard University, INSEAD, University of Chicago, and the University of California of Berkeley where he was the Warren E. and Carol Spieker Professor of Leadership.  He has been awarded 13 teaching prizes and 12 scientific research prizes worldwide.  
His research has been funded by a wide variety of government and private agencies and uses social network science and computational methods to predict outstanding human achievement. His research has appeared in the WSJ, Newsweek, The Economist, The New Yorker, Fortune, other media outlets and TV.  His research spans disciplines and has appeared in the American Sociological Review, Administrative Science Quarterly, Management Science, Strategic Management Journal, American Behavioral Scientist, American Journal of Sociology, Harvard Business Review, Science, The Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical, The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, PLOS One, Personality and Social Psychological Bulletin, WWW, and Nature.
Brian has advised and spoken at major organizations and associations in over 30 countries, including the Young Presidents' Organization (YPO), Baker and McKenzie, Deloitte, Pepsico, Kraft, Abbott Labs, UNITE, Total Quality Schools, Hearst Media, ABN AMBRO, CreditSuisse, P&G, McKinsey, the World Bank, U.S. intelligence agencies, Intel, Thomson Reuters, PwC, and other corporations and non-profits worldwide.
Before Kellogg, Brian worked as a management consultant, carpenter, and a musician. He earned his MS in social psychology from Carnegie-Mellon University and a Ph.D. in sociology from The State University of New York at Stony Brook.
To read more about Professor Brian Uzzi's research and teaching, visit his personal web site: www.kellogg.northwestern.edu/faculty/uzzi/index.htm


Areas of Expertise
Behavioral Finance
Creativity and Innovation
Innovation
Social Media
Social Networks

Recent Media Coverage

The Washington Post: How to be a better networker for people who hate networking

The New York Times: Right and Left React to Trump’s Comments on the Civil War

Quartz: Social media is polarizing users faster than ever

Marketplace: H&R Block is using artificial intelligence to help you do your taxes

See all Kellogg in the Media
Recent Kellogg News

Kellogg hosts inaugural Chief Diversity Officer Summit

Merging big data with social science

'Big Data Doesn’t Make Decisions, Leaders Do'

‘Architecting Collaboration’

See all Kellogg News





































































CONTACT INFO:
PHONE: 847-491-8072
EMAIL:
uzzi
@kellogg.northwestern.edu
OFFICE:
Global Hub 5329
Visit Personal Site
Download vCard
Download Vita (pdf)
Kellogg School of Management
Northwestern University
2211 Campus Drive, Evanston, IL 60208
847-491-3300 | Email
Directions
CAMPUSES
Evanston
Chicago
Miami
Global Network
INFO FOR
Alumni
Corporate Visitors
Current Students
Staff Intranet
Faculty & Staff Intranet
Recruiters 
JOIN THE CONVERSATION
Twitter
Facebook
LinkedIn
YouTube
Tumblr
STRATEGIC INITIATIVES
Architectures of Collaboration 
Innovation & Entrepreneurship 
Markets & Customers 
Public-Private Interface 
© Kellogg School of Management, Northwestern University. All Rights Reserved. Kellogg Policies