SKIP TO CONTENT
School of Public Health and Health Professions
UB Home Maps UB Directory
Department of Epidemiology
and Environmental Health
Contact Us Support Us Apply Now
About EEH
Academics
Faculty and Staff
Research and Facilities
News and Events
SEARCH
INFO FOR
Epidemiology and Environmental Health > Faculty and Staff > Faculty Directory > Jo L. Freudenheim, PhD
Jo L. Freudenheim
PhD
Chair
UB Distinguished Professor
Professor
Department of Epidemiology and Environmental Health
School of Public Health and Health Professions
Research Topics
Most of Jo Freudenheim's research has focused on cancer epidemiology, using epidemiologic tools to understand carcinogenesis at the population, individual, tissue and molecular levels in order to better prevent and control the disease. With a background in clinical nutrition, she has worked extensively on understanding diet and dietary patterns in relation to risk of disease and to disease prognosis. Recent work includes a study in Western New York as well as one with collaborators at the University of Puerto Rico to study breast cancer among Puerto Rican women. The latter study is focused on understanding the underlying mechanisms for the increases in incidence seen there. In addition, Freudenheim has a longstanding interest in life course epidemiology, examining the role of exposures in early life on adult chronic diseases including cancer. The work in Puerto Rico includes an examination of early life diet and physical activity in breast cancer risk. With collaborators at The Ohio State University, she is also involved in a study of the biology of healthy breast tissues using tissues collected from reduction mammoplasties. Finally, she is also doing research related to the microbiome and cancer.
Contact Information
270D Farber Hall
Buffalo NY, 14214
Phone: (716) 829-5375
Fax: (716) 829-2979
jfreuden@buffalo.edu
PubMed
Overview
Publications
News
Summary
Jo Freudenheim, PhD, is a UB Distinguished Professor and professor and chair of the Department of Epidemiology and Environmental Health. She received a doctorate degree in nutritional sciences and a master's degree in preventive medicine from the University of Wisconsin-Madison. She subsequently came to UB for postdoctoral training in cancer epidemiology and was appointed to the faculty in the Department of Epidemiology and Environmental Health in 1987. Freudenheim is also adjunct professor of oncology at Roswell Park Cancer Institute and affiliated scientist at the Research Institute on Addictions. Her research focuses on breast cancer epidemiology and prognosis including an examination of breast tumor characteristics, of factors related to disparities in breast cancer among Puerto Rican women, the role of exposures during the life course and breast cancer risk, and the role of the microbiome in cancer risk.
Education
PhD, Nutritional Sciences, University of Wisconsin - Madison, 1986
MS, Preventive Medicine (Epidemiology), University of Wisconsin - Madison, 1986
MS, Nutritional Sciences, University of Wisconsin - Madison, 1984
RD, Lutheran General Hospital, Park Ridge, Illinois, 1977
BS, Human Nutrition, magna cum laude, University of Michigan - Ann Arbor, 1975
Professional Training
Postdoctoral Fellow, Cancer Epidemiology, Department of Epidemiology and Environmental Health, State University of New York at Buffalo, 1987-1988
Intern, Clinical Nutrition, Lutheran General Hospital, Park Ridge, Illinois, 1976-1977
Professional Affiliations
Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics
American Association for Cancer Research (Women in Cancer Research, Molecular Epidemiology Group)
American College of Epidemiology (Fellow)
American Epidemiological Society
American Society for Nutrition
Developmental Origins of Health and Disease Society
Society for Epidemiologic Research
Past chair, Steering Committee, Molecular Epidemiology Group, American Association for Cancer Research (2015-16)
Senior Editor, Cancer Epidemiology, Biomarkers and Prevention (CEBP)
Editorial Board, Cancer Causes and Control
Faculty and Staff
Faculty Directory
Christine Ambrosone, PhD
Matthew R. Bonner, PhD, MPH
Ying (Jessica) Cao, PhD
Richard P. Donahue, PhD, MPH
Jo L. Freudenheim, PhD
Andrew Hyland, PhD
Katarzyna Kordas, PhD
Michael J. LaMonte, PhD, MPH
James Marshall, PhD
Susan E. McCann, PhD, RD
Amy E. Millen, PhD
Kirsten B. Moysich, PhD
Lina Mu, PhD, MD
Ekaterina (Katia) Noyes, PhD, MPH
Heather M. Ochs-Balcom, PhD
James R. Olson, PhD
Pavani Kalluri Ram, MD
Xuefeng Ren, MD, PhD
Jean Wactawski-Wende, PhD
Affiliated Faculty Directory
Staff Directory
Research
Highlights
Visit and Explore
Directions and Maps
Contact Us
Departments
Biostatistics
Community Health and Health Behavior
Epidemiology and Environmental Health
Exercise and Nutrition Sciences
Rehabilitation Science
Learning Resources
Academic Calendars
Health Sciences Library
UBlearns
Resources
Emergency Guide
Request IT Support
Information and Technology Services
Faculty and Staff
Faculty Directory
Staff Directory
School of Public Health and Health Professions
401 Kimball Tower
Buffalo, New York 14214
Phone: (716) 829-5000
Email: sphhp@buffalo.edu
© 2017 University at Buffalo. All rights reserved.  |  Privacy  |  Accessibility