Researchers @ Brown
Manage your profile
Home
People
Organizations
Help
Curriculum Vitae
email
Paul A. Pirraglia Associate Professor of Medicine
Dr. Pirraglia attended Johns Hopkins University, and graduated with a major in Psychology and a minor in the Writing Seminars. He received his medical degree with Honors in Research from Cornell University Medical College in 1998. He did his residency training in General Internal Medicine at Rhode Island Hospital/Brown University. He then completed a General Medicine fellowship at Massachusetts General Hospital and received an MPH from Harvard School of Public Health. He joined the facultmore...
Brown Affiliations
Medicine
  Research
  Background
  Affiliation
  Teaching
  View All
  scholarly work
Witt WP, Fortuna, L, Wu E, Kahn RS, Winickoff JP, Pirraglia PA, Ferris TG, Kuhlthau K. Children's use of motor vehicle restraints: maternal psychological distress, maternal motor vehicle restraint practices, and sociodemographics. Ambulatory Pediatrics. In press.
Pirraglia PA, Charbonneau A, Kader B, Berlowitz DR. Adequate initial antidepressant treatment among chronic obstructive pulmonary disease patients in a cohort of depressed veterans. The Primary Care Companion to the Journal of Climore...
research overview
Dr. Pirraglia researches the impact of depression and anxiety on chronic medical illness. His current work includes examining antidepressant prescribing using large databases, developing a collaborative care intervention for depression and anxiety in veterans with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and investigating the impact of chronic medical illness on patients with bipolar disorder.
research statement

Dr. Pirraglia researches the impact of depression and anxiety on chronic medical illness. His current work includes developing a collaborative care intervention for depression and anxiety in veterans with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, examining the impact of depressive symptoms on chronic medical disease management programs, and investigating the impact of chronic medical illness on patients with bipolar disorder.
For his VA Research Career Development Award, he is starting with more...
funded research
Veteran's Affairs Health Services Research & Development Research Career Development Award, Depression and Anxiety in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease, $462,206, 10/16/2005 – 10/15/2008
RI Foundation Grant, Experiences, Perceptions, Needs, and Preferences of COPD Patients Regarding Depression and Anxiety, $5,110, 1/26/2006 – 1/25/2007





















©2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO
About
Contact Us