Skip to main content
The University of New Mexico Health Sciences Center
HSC Admissions
Directory
more
College of Pharmacy
Admissions
Education 
Clinical Innovation & Practice 
Research 
People 
About Us 
Departments 
Contact Us
UNM HSCHomePeopleFacultyPamela Hall, PhD
Pamela Hall, PhD
Assistant Professor: Pharmaceutical Sciences
Contact Information
Office Location: MRF 208 CU9
Phone: (505) 272-0915
Email: PHall@salud.unm.edu
Academic Career
Hall received both her BS in microbiology (1989) and her MS in molecular biology (1999) from the University of Alabama in Huntsville. She received her PhD in Pharmacology from Case Western Reserve University in 2004.
Research Interests
Hall’s research focuses on understanding host innate defense mechanisms against Staphylococcus aureus bacterial infections, as well as on development of novel vaccines and therapeutics to prevent and treat such infections. Her laboratory uses a variety of infection models, flow cytometry and immunological assays to investigate mechanisms used by the innate immune system to inhibit S. aureus quorum-sensing regulated virulence factor expression controlled in order to prevent invasive infection. She also works with researchers from the UNM School of Medicine to investigate the use of virus-like particles as platforms for novel vaccines to prevent invasive S. aureus infection.
Practice and Research Pages
Hall Laboratory
Professional Memberships
American Society for Microbiology
The American Association of Immunologists
Media
UNM HSC faculty honored for research achievements
(HSCNewsBeat; November 4,  2014) ─ Four UNM Health Sciences Center (HSC) faculty members have been recognized by their peers for their research achievements. Robin Ohls, MD, Vallebh Shah, PhD, Laurie Hudson, PhD and Ellen Beswick, PhD all received the Excellence in Research Award, handed out for the sixth year during the HSC's annual Research Day on Oct. 30.

UNM Health Sciences Center
Education
Academic Calendars
Colleges & Schools
Degrees & Certificates
Graduate Studies
Schools & Colleges
All Academic Programs
College of Nursing
College of Pharmacy
College of Population Health
School of Medicine
Research
HSC Research Programs
Meet Our Researchers
Volunteer for Clinical Research
Student Resources
Course Catalog
Financial Aid
Library
Events Calendar
Bookstore
  Find a program
  Apply now
  Find a location
© The University of New Mexico
Albuquerque, NM 87131, (505) 277-0111
New Mexico's Flagship University
     more at social.unm.edu
Accessibility |Legal |Contact |For Employees |Jobs |Diversity |UNM Health