The University of Adelaide Home | Faculties & Divisions | Search
Faculties & Divisions | People A to Z | Media Expertise | Phonebook
[advanced]
Public browsing [Login]
Text Zoom: S | M | L
Biography/ Background
Qualifications
Teaching Interests
Research Interests
Publications
Professional Interests
Community Engagement
Files
Associate Professor Manouchehr Haghighi
Telephone (08) 8313 4296
Position Associate Professor
Email mhaghighi@asp.adelaide.edu.au
Fax (08) 8313 4345
Building Santos Petroleum Engineering Building
Floor/Room 2 15
Campus North Terrace
Org Unit Australian School of Petroleum
To link to this page, please use the following URL:
http://www.adelaide.edu.au/directory/manouchehr.haghighi
Biography/ Background
Manouchehr Haghighi is Associate Professor of Petroleum Engineering. His research and teaching focus is unconventional reservoirs, reservoir simulation, well testing and formation evaluation.  He has supervised more than 40 MSc and 10 PhD students. Before joining the University of Adelaide in 2009, Manouchehr was associate professor of petroleum engineering at the University of Tehran, Iran. During 2000-2007, he was the head of petroleum engineering program at the University of Tehran. In 2000, Manouchehr established Simtech, a consulting company for the integrated reservoir simulation in which he has been project director of several full field simulation projects for oil and gas reservoirs.
From 1995 to 2000 Manouchehr was working with National Iranian Oil Company and was the director of a program for training of NIOC staff at several Universities in US, UK, Canada, France Australia, and Norway. Manouchehr was a visiting professor at the University of Calgary from 2007 to 2008.
Manouchehr has published more than 80 articles in peer review journals or presented in  international conferences. He has served as a reviewer for different journals such as journal of petroleum science and engineering and active member of society of petroleum engineers (SPE).
Qualifications
Combined BS/MSc in Chemical Engineering, University of Tehran, Iran 1984
MSc in Petroleum Engineering, University of Southern California, USA 1989
PhD in Petroleum Engineering, University of Southern California, USA 1994
Teaching Interests
Unconventional Reservoirs
Naturally Fractured Reservoirs
Reservoir Engineering and Simulation
Well Testing & Pressure Transient Analysis
Formation Evaluation, Petrophysics & Rock Propertis
Research Interests
Reservoir Modeling and Simulation
Unconventional Reservoirs Reservoirs
Flow Visualization in Porous Media
EOR Process in Hetrogeneous Reservoirs
Geothermal Reservoirs
Publications
Please see the attached file.
Professional Interests
Integrated Reservoir Simulation
Tight Gas Reservoirs
Coal Seam Gas
Shale Gas Reservoirs
Carbonate Reservoirs
  Community Engagement
Member of Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE)
Reviewer of Energy & Fuels, Petroleum Science and Technology, Petroleum Science and Engineering
Files
Publication List - full_publication_list_(1).doc [62.5K] (application/msword)
Entry last updated: Thursday, 10 Mar 2016
The information in this directory is provided to support the academic, administrative and business activities of the University of Adelaide. To facilitate these activities, entries in the University Phone Directory are not limited to University employees. The use of information provided here for any other purpose, including the sending of unsolicited commercial material via email or any other electronic format, is strictly prohibited. The University reserves the right to recover all costs incurred in the event of breach of this policy.
Copyright © 2013 The University of Adelaide
Last Modified 26/07/2013 Marketing & Communications
CRICOS Provider Number 00123M

Copyright | Privacy | Disclaimer