Skip to main content
College of Education
Students Faculty & Staff
Apply
Search
Events Faculty Directory Make a Gift UT Austin
ABOUT
PROGRAMS
DEPARTMENTS
FACULTY & RESEARCH
ALUMNI & FRIENDS
Home
Faculty Profile
Faculty Profile
Home
Faculty
Tolga Ozyurtcu

Tolga Ozyurtcu
Clinical Assistant Professor, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education, College of Education

Phone: +1 512 232 6018
Email: tolga@austin.utexas.edu
Office: BEL 605G
Office Hours: Wednesday 10AM - 12PM or by appointment
View Curriculum Vitae (pdf)
 Biography
Degrees
Expertise
Publications
Awards
Courses
Websites
Tolga Ozyurtcu, Ph.D. is a Clinical Assistant Professor in the Department of Kinesiology and Health Education at the University of Texas at Austin. Ozyurtcu holds a B.A. in Political Science from Haverford College, a M.Sc. in Sport Management from the University of Texas at Austin, and a Ph.D. in Interdisciplinary Sport Studies, also from UT-Austin. His doctoral dissertation was a cultural history of the original Muscle Beach (1934-1958), in Santa Monica, California, titled Flex Marks The Spot. He teaches in the areas of Sport Management and Physical Culture and Sport Studies, including classes in the management of sport organizations, media and public relations in sport, and the sociological, philosophical, and ethical aspects of sport and physical activity. Ozyurtcu's research interests include sport development, sporting subcultures, sport and cultural geography, and physical culture history, and he has presented his work to the North American Society for Sport History, International Association for the Philosophy of Sport, and the North American Society for Sport Management. An experienced coach and sport industry consultant, Ozyurtcu seeks to engage his students by combining practical and theoretical approaches to the study of sport.






Find Other Faculty


College of Education
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
STUDENTS
Undergraduate
Graduate
Prospective
Apply Now
Scholarship Information

Mailing Address
College of Education
1912 Speedway, Stop D5000
Austin, Texas 78712
View Map

Phone
(512) 471-3223


HELPFUL LINKS
Emergency Information
UT Directory
UT Direct
Policies and Procedures
Help Support
Faculty Directory
DEPARTMENTS
Curriculum and Instruction
Educational Administration
Educational Psychology
Department of Kinesiology
and Health Education
Special Education
ADMINISTRATION AND
COLLEGE OFFICES
College Leadership
Development and Alumni Relations
Career Services
Office of Student Success and Recruitment
Field Experiences and Certification
Office of Educational Research Support
Information Technology Office
Office of Instructional Innovation
Office of Communications
© College of Education at the University of Texas at Austin 2017
Feedback | Privacy Policy | Adobe Reader | Web Accessibility Policy