UW HOME
COLLEGE HOME
DIRECTORIES
MAPS
Search Search Make a Gift & Help Support ESS
College of the Environment
University of Washington
About
People
Education
Research
News & Events
Intranet
Short Biography
People
Directory
Awards & Honors
Faculty Scholarly Activity
Student Publications
Alumni Profiles

ESS in the News
Shifting Water Weight Can Trigger Small Earthquakes in California | Science
Water shapes California powerfully, deluging the state with El Niño-generated rainfalls and drying it out with punishing droughts. Now, a new study suggests that water may play ... - Read More
ESS Graduation Saturday!
The ESS Graduation Celebration will be held this Saturday in the HUB Lyceum. We will also have a live video stream for those unable to make it to the celebration.
Read More
Something in the Air: The Search for Life on Distant Planets
Searching for life on other planets can be done by looking at biogenic gases in planetary atmospheres. David Catling, a UW professor of Earth and Space Sciences, explains this in ... - Read More
Researchers Test New Technology That Could Lead To Longer-Lasting Satellites
Students within the Space Sciences group in the Department of Earth Sciences are developing long duration, high altitude capabilities to provide new remote sensing and/or ... - Read More
UW Students Building First Washington Student-built Tiny Satellite
DubSat1, as its builders are calling it, will become the first Washington state student-built satellite, and it will help launch some University of Washington graduates into space ... - Read More
Bogoslof Volcano Ask Cloud Lightning Early Warning
News Item from CBS affiliate in Alaska about the recent Bogoslof Volcano eruption over the holiday weekend, with ash up to 35,000' and serious aviation warning. WWLLN lightning ... - Read More
A Look at the Fate of California's Earthquake Early Warning System | 89.3 KPCC
What does President Trump's proposed budget mean for the system that alerts West Coast residents when an earthquake hits? John Vidale, professor of Earth and space sciences at the ... - Read More
Missing from President Trump's Budget: Funds for California's Earthquake Early Warning System | LA Times
President Trump's budget would eliminate federal funding for an earthquake early warning system being developed for California and the rest of the West Coast which, if enacted, ... - Read More
Scientists Study Mount St. Helens Magma to Understand Volcano Risks | KING 5
A four-year experiment to locate and study the liquid rock known as magma under Mount St. Helens is expected to hit a milestone. Ken Creager, a geophysicist at the UW, is - Read More
Trump Budget Would Slash Science Programs Across Government | Nature News
Proposed cuts in Trump's budget include 11 percent at the National Science Foundation, 18 percent at the National Institutes of Health and 30 percent at the Environmental ... - Read More
37 Years Later: What's Changed Since the Mount St. Helens Eruption? | Q13 FOX News
In the early spring of 1980, Mount St. Helens had a single seismograph monitoring earthquakes on the mountain. Steve Malone, professor emeritus of Earth and space sciences, ... - Read More
UW Seismology Lab Analyzed Quakes Before Mount St. Helens Eruption | KING 5
Steve Malone was deeply involved in the science and analysis surrounding the eruption of Mount St. Helens on May 18, 1980. Malone, a professor emeritus of Earth and space ... - Read More
What's Geomorphology and Why Does It Matter? (Asking for a Friend) | KUOW
David Montgomery, a UW professor of Earth and space sciences, is working to raise awareness of the crucial role dirt plays in human survival, especially when it comes to soil ... - Read More
Weathering of Rocks a Poor Regulator of Global Temperatures
A new University of Washington study shows that the textbook understanding of global Read More
Eric Steig in the NYTimes
An interactive feature article in the NY Times discusses the state of the Antarctic ice sheet, based on interviews with scientists around the country, including ice core ... - Read More
3.5 Earthquake off Whidbey Island Joins Swarm of Kitsap County Quakes | KING 5
A new round of earthquakes struck the Kitsap County region Thursday morning, in the same vicinity where some other quakes hit within the past week. John Vidale, professor of Earth ... - Read More
Knut Christianson in Rolling Stone Magazine
Knut Christianson's research on the Thwaites Glacier, Antarctica, is featured in Rolling Stone this - Read More
Earthquake Warning System Works for Bremerton M3 Quake
Prof Vidale get a shaking warning from the incipient earthquake early warning system in small - Read More
Bremerton Earthquake 'promising' Test for New Warning System | MyNorthwest.com
Just before a 3.3 magnitude earthquake rattled Bremerton earlier this week , seismologists were celebrating. John Vidale, state seismologist, UW professor, and director of the ... - Read More
UW Professor Digs in to Our Problem of Soil Degradation in 'Growing a Revolution' | The Seattle Times
University of Washington geomorphology professor David R. Montgomery offers three steps to rebuilding our damaged soil in his book. He will speak at Town Hall Seattle on Tuesday, ... - Read More
20 Small Earthquakes Hit Near Kitsap Peninsula | Q13 FOX News
At least 20 small earthquakes hit near the Kitsap Peninsula in less than 24 hours, between Wednesday and Thursday. UW seismologist John Vidale is quoted. - Read More
UW Seismologist John Vidale Elected to National Academy of Sciences
John E. Vidale, a University of Washington professor of Earth and space sciences, is among 84 new ... - Read More
New Book by UW's David R. Montgomery Addresses How to Rebuild Earth's Soils
In the introduction, University of Washington geologist David R. Montgomery writes that he never thought he’d write an optimistic book about the environment. ... - Read More
Antarctica's Blood Falls: Not So Mysterious, but Still Freaky As Heck | Popular Science
In a new study, researchers report new information on Antarctica's 'Blood Falls': they believe they've traced the water's exact starting point to an reservoir of brine beneath ... - Read More
Melting Moons Could Support Liveable Atmospheres for Aeons | New Scientist
Many of the planets we've spotted outside our solar system are Jupiter-like gas giants, unsuited to life as we know it. But if they host rocky moons, those moons could make for ... - Read More
WWLLN Lightning Used to Diagnose Strongest Tropical Storm on Record
Typhoon Haiyan was already one of the strongest tropical storms on record. Now it has another claim to fame. Analysis of satellite data has revealed that the storm, which hit the ... - Read More
The Habitability Hype Around LHS 1140b is Real; Here's Why | Inverse
There's more hope that LHS 1140b possesses better odds of hosting life than two other recently discovered systems -- and it all comes back to atmosphere. David Catling, a ... - Read More
Why I'm Marching for Science in Seattle (despite the Risk) | KUOW
David Montgomery, a science professor and MacArthur Genius award winner at the University of Washington, told KUOW why he's marching for science on Saturday. [This story was ... - Read More
Scientists Have Discovered Vast Systems of Flowing Water in Antarctica -- and That Worries Them | The Washington Post
The surface of the remote Antarctic ice sheet may be a far more dynamic place than scientists imagined, new research suggests. Decades of satellite imagery and aerial photography ... - Read More
Retreating Yukon Glacier Caused a River to Disappear
The massive Kaskawulsh Glacier in northern Canada has retreated about a mile up its valley over the past century. Last spring, its retreat triggered a geologic event at ... - Read More
Prof. Schreiber Co-Author on Norman Falcon Award Receiving Paper
Charlotte Schreiber is a co-author on a paper that has received an award for excellence. The European Association of Geoscientists and Engineers has awarded the annual Norman ... - Read More
Nearly All the Elements Needed for Life Found on Saturn's Moon | USA Today
Scientists have found a potential food source for life on a world in our solar system, raising the tantalizing possibility that organisms could thrive in a place besides Earth. ... - Read More
Life on Mars: Volcanic Activity on Ancient Mars May Have Supported Alien Life | Inquisitr
New research is now suggesting that volcanic activity on ancient Mars may have been conducive to the formation of a habitable environment. Steven Sholes, a doctoral candidate in ... - Read More
WWLLN Lightning Used to Track Bogoslov Volcano Island Growth
Volcano Watch: Bogoslof Volcano, Alaska: ongoing eruption through the Bering Sea. The World Wide Lightning Location Network (wwlln.net/) provides automated alerts – within ... - Read More
Volcanic Activity on Ancient Mars May Have Produced Organic Life | Live Science
A new paper suggests that volcanoes on Mars may in fact have created an environment habitable to ancient microbes. Lead author Stephen Sholes, a UW doctoral student in Earth and ... - Read More
Earthquake Warning System to Go West Coast-wide | KIRO-TV
Researchers at the University of Washington are unveiling a first-of-its kind West Coast system of earthquake alerts. The Washington alert system is being combined with the alerts ... - Read More
USGS, Partners Launch a Unified, West Coast-wide Earthquake Early Warning System
The U.S. Geological Survey and university, public and private partners held an event April 10 at the University of Washington to introduce the Read More
Healthy Soil is the Real Key to Feeding the World
When ESS Professor David Montgomery embarked on a six-month trip to visit farms around the world to research his forthcoming book, “Growing a Revolution: Bringing Our Soil Back ... - Read More
Using a Method from Wall Street to Track Slow Slipping of Earth’s Crust
Stock traders have long used specialized trackers to decide when to buy or sell a stock, or when the market is beginning to make a sudden swing. A new University of Washington ... - Read More
Wall Street Algorithm Helps Scientists Track 'slow Slip' Earthquakes | UPI
The same algorithm that helps traders on Wall Street know when to buy or sell is helping geologists at the UW study "slow slip" earthquakes, gradual movement of Earth's tectonic ... - Read More
Oso, 3 Years On: Wrestling with Lessons from Deadly Landslide, and How to Protect People Elsewhere | The Seattle Times
New research has documented a history of more than 200 other deep-seated landslides along a 15.5-mile stretch of the North Fork of the Stillaguamish that includes the Oso site. ... - Read More
Bombing Antarctica, Flying into Hurricanes, and Drinking Your Own Pee: Fantastic Tales from the Field | Popular Science
A roundup of stories from the coolest day jobs in the world. Nick Holschuh, a UW postdoctoral research in Earth and space sciences, is interviewed. - Read More
UW Scientists Use Lightning to Create Better Forecasts
Profs. Robert Holzworth (ESS) , and Cliff Mass (AtmosSci) discuss a recent publication in which they used the UW/ESS managed WWLLN (World Wide Lightning Location Network) data to ... - Read More
Print this page
Max Stevens
Graduate Student
Office: ATG-208B
Phone: 206-543-6223
Email: maxstev@uw.edu
Interests: Firn densification and gas transport in firn, glacier mass balance, snow avalanches
Home People Profile
About
Chair's Welcome
ESS Photo Gallery
ESS Diversity Resources
Community Resources
Quick Facts (PDF)
History
Contact Us
Support ESS
People
Directory
Awards & Honors
Faculty Scholarly Activity
Student Publications
Alumni Profiles
Education
Student Services
Undergraduate Program
Graduate Programs
Courses
Research
Groups
Centers & Programs
Research Labs
Support Labs
News & Events
Events, Exams, & Seminars
News
Newsletter
Awards Ceremony
Graduation
Faculty Meeting Minutes
Intranet
Forms, Guides, & Policies
MyESS
Safety
Faculty & Student Committee List
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON

BE BOUNDLESS
© 2016 UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
JOBS MY UW PRIVACY TERMS