Cookies help us to give you the best experience on our website. You can change your cookie settings if you wish. Otherwise we'll assume you're OK to continue.OKSee our policy
UK
China
Malaysia
Study
Research
Business
Global
About
A-Z
   You are here:
  University of NottinghamMedicinePeople
School of Medicine
       Home
About us
Study with us
Research
NHS Partners
People
Staff listings by divisions
News
Events
Contact us
School Workspace intranet
School staff listing
People listings by divisions
  Anand Ahankari
Postgraduate Research Student, Faculty of Medicine & Health Sciences
Download to vCard
Back to the Staff Directory
Personal Details
Teaching and Learning
Research
Publications
Contact
Room B126 Clinical Sciences Building 2
Nottingham City Hospital
Hucknall Road
Nottingham
NG5 1PB
UK
Anand.Ahankari@nottingham.ac.uk
Biography
Summary
Graduated in Dentistry (BDS), and then studied Masters in Public Health (MPH) at the University of Nottingham, UK.
Submitted PhD thesis to the Division of Epidemiology and Public Health (of University of Nottingham), and expected to secure the award in the next 3 months [research focus: 1) anaemia in adolescent girls and pregnant women in central India, 2) sex-ratio analysis to study female feticide, 3) Validation of non-invasive haemoglobin technology in Indian population].
Anand has a valuable experience of working across all stages of a research project (concept development, grant application, research proposal design, ethics, data collection, analysis and publication).
He handled a team of 4 full-time staff, and 34 healthcare workers, and also worked in both developing and developed country environments (total full-time work experience: 4 years).
Published 15 papers since 2012. Of those, 6 papers are from PhD dataset published in the first 38 months of the study period.
Awarded '2016 Tri-Campus Postgraduate Research Award' (Mr Andrew Henry Prize) following his contribution during PhD studies.
Total personal scholarship awards received: 57,600 GBP
Total project grants secured: 375,630 GBP
Upcoming papers (expected to be published in 2017): 4
Previous honorary appointments (Research Fellow Panel-co lead and Scientific Advisor) with the NNEdPro, Cambridge (October 2015 to February 2017).
Teaching Summary
Anand's research interests involves maternal health, adolescent health, oral cancer, influenza, program evaluation and systematic review methods. He has contributed in 3 MPH dissertation projects… read more
Research Summary
Anand has submitted his PhD thesis on 10th March 2017, and will be appearing for the viva exam in the next 2 months.
Project title: An Investigation of factors associated with adolescent health and pregnancy-related outcomes in women from Maharashtra state, India.
The Vice-Chancellor's Scholarship for Research Excellence (International) by the University of Nottingham funded the PhD tuition fees, and additional data collection cost was sponsored by the Maharashtra Foundation, USA. Halo Medical Foundation (HMF), India provided access and support for data collection activities. The aim of the proposed research is to identify factors associated with adverse pregnancy-related and reproductive health outcomes among women living in Marathwada region of Maharashtra state. The project used a prospective observational approach to investigate individual and community risk factors for being diagnosed with anaemia in population of pregnant women and adolescent girls living in 34 villages of Maharashtra state. Additionally, the study collected the birth registry records of Maharashtra state to analyse temporal changes in sex ratio at live birth over a period of last 32 years. The project setting was in an area within which, the non-governmental organisation, HMF coordinates a number of different health and social development program, and will thus was integrated in HMF's work specifically with the Anaemia Control Program (ACP).
The PhD was supervised by Dr Andrew Fogarty, Dr Puja Myles and Dr Laila Tata, based at the University of Nottingham, UK.
Recent Publications
ADAJI EE, AHANKARI AS and MYLES PR, 2017. An investigation to identify potential risk factors associated with common chronic diseases among the older population in India Indian J Community Medicine. 42(1), 46-52
AHANKARI A, FOGARTY A, TATA L and MYLES P, 2017. Healthcare benefits linked with Below Poverty Line registration in India: Observations from Maharashtra Anaemia Study (MAS) F1000Research.
AHANKARI A, BAPAT S, MYLES P, FOGARTY A and TATA L, 2017. Factors associated with preterm delivery and low birth weight: a study from rural Maharashtra, India F1000Research.
MONA DAVE, PUJA MYLES, P AROKIASAMY, UTTAMACHARYA, P KHOBRAGADE, K MORTIMER and ANDREW FOGARTY, 2017. Household air pollution and lung function in Indian adults: a cross-sectional study International Union Against Tuberculosis and Lung Disease. 21(6), 702-704
View all publications
School of Medicine
University of Nottingham
Medical School
Nottingham, NG7 2UH
Contacts: Please see our 'contact us' page for further details
Legal information
Copyright
Terms and conditions
Privacy
Posting rules
Accessibility
Freedom of information
Charity gateway
Cookie policy
Get social
Connect with the University of Nottingham through social media and our blogs.
        Campus maps | More contact information | Jobs
 