Cookies help us to give you the best experience on our website. You can change your cookie settings if you wish. Otherwise we'll assume you're OK to continue.OKSee our policy
Nottingham University Business School
UK
China
Malaysia
Home
Undergraduate
MSc
MBA
PhD
Executive Education
Research
   You are here:
  University of NottinghamBusiness SchoolPeopleProfessor Sanja Petrovic
Nottingham University Business School
       Home
About us
Programmes
Executive Education
Careers
People
News
Events
Contact
Professor Sanja Petrovic
Profile
Publications
Research
Research Students
Teaching
BSc (Belgrade), MSc (Belgrade), PhD (Belgrade)
Professor of Operational Research

Division: Operations Management and Information Systems
E-mail: Sanja.Petrovic@nottingham.ac.uk
Tel: +44 (0) 115 8467764
Location: C11 (Si Yuan Building, Jubilee Campus)

Dr Sanja Petrovic is a Professor of Operational Research in the Nottingham University Business School. Sanja Petrovic has conducted and led multi-disciplinary research into development of models, heuristics and algorithms for a variety of real world optimisation and scheduling problems, including radiotherapy planning, scheduling of radiotherapy patients, nurse rostering, production scheduling, and university timetabling. Her research areas include the theory and practice of case-based reasoning, multicriteria decision making, modelling of uncertainty by using fuzzy sets and fuzzy logic, optimisation methods and meta-heuristics, and multi-agent systems. Prof Petrovic has been the principal investigator on 3 projects funded by Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) that deal with real-world scheduling and planning problems and principal investigator in Nottingham on a project funded by Technology Strategy Board. She has been also a co-investigator on 12 other externally funded grants. Sanja is a Vice-president of the UK Operational Research Society and a Co-ordinator of the EURO (European Association of Operational Research Societies) Working group on Automated Timetabling (WATT) since 2006. She has been a member of the EPSRC Peer Review College since 2003 in three terms. She was a guest co-editor for special issues of the European Journal of Operational Research (EJOR), Journal of Scheduling and Annals of Operations Research. She is an Associate Editor of the IMA Journal of Management Mathematics and a member of the Editorial Board of the Yugoslav Journal of Operations Research - YUJOR. She was Chair of the OR53, UK Operational Research conference, Nottingham, September 6-8, 2011 and has been a member of over 20 programme/refereeing committees of international conferences in the last 5 years. She has published around 45 papers in international scientific journals, 20 book chapters and over 70 papers in international conference proceedings. She currently supervises 3 PhD students and has been supervised 12 PhD students to completion and 8 Post-doctoral research fellows.

Research Interests
In the last few years, I have conducted multi-disciplinary research into models, heuristics and algorithms for a variety of real world scheduling problems, including radiotherapy planning and scheduling, production scheduling, nurse rostering, and university timetabling. My research interest includes the fields of case-based reasoning, multicriteria decision analysis, modelling of uncertainty by fuzzy sets, meta-heuristics, hyper-heuristics and multi-agent systems.

Administrative Roles
Divisional Research Director (Operations Management and Information Systems)
REF Co-ordinator




































































































































































































































































































































   Nottingham University Business School
Jubilee Campus
Nottingham
NG8 1BB
telephone: +44 (0) 115 846 6602
fax: +44 (0) 115 846 6667
email: business-enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
Legal information
Copyright
Terms and conditions
Privacy
Posting rules
Accessibility
Freedom of information
Charity gateway

  Cookies
Our site makes use of cookies. See Cookies for details.
Get social
Connect with The University of Nottingham through social media and our blogs.
        Campus maps | More contact information | Jobs
 