Cookies on this website
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you click 'Continue' we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies and you won't see this message again. Click 'Find out more' for information on how to change your cookie settings.
Continue
Find out more
Accessibility Cookies Contact us Intranet Log in
ABOUT
NEWS
EVENTS
OUR RESEARCH
PUBLICATIONS
STUDY WITH US
WORK WITH US
OUR TEAM
MORE...
Search
Our teamLaura Thei
CONTACT INFORMATION
Email laura.thei@psych.ox.ac.uk
Tel +44 (0)1865 613192/282630
MY CONNECTIONS
Translational Neuroscience & Dementia Research
Research Group
Laura Thei
MBiomedsci, PhD
POSTDOCTOCTORAL RESEARCH SCIENTIST
I am a research scientist in the Translational Neuroscience and Dementia Research Group, working primarily on the underlying mechanisms of amyloid beta pathology in Alzheimer’s disease. For these studies, we are generating neuronal and non-neuronal rodent and human cell models of how amyloid beta aggregation results in synaptic loss, increased tau expression and subsequent neurodegeneration. Within our model we aim to establish the phenotypes of these models ranging from gene, and protein expression and modification to neuronal function.
Prior to joining this team, I completed a PhD in neonatal hypoxia-ischemic cerebral injury at the Institute for Women’s Health, University College London. 
RECENT PUBLICATIONS
The role of different strain backgrounds in bacterial endotoxin-mediated sensitization to neonatal hypoxic-ischemic brain damage.
Rocha-Ferreira E. et al, (2015), Neuroscience, 311, 292 - 307
Peptidylarginine deiminases: novel drug targets for prevention of neuronal damage following hypoxic ischemic insult (HI) in neonates.
Lange S. et al, (2014), J Neurochem, 130, 555 - 562
Melatonin augments hypothermic neuroprotection in a perinatal asphyxia model.
Robertson NJ. et al, (2013), Brain, 136, 90 - 105
c-Jun in Schwann cells promotes axonal regeneration and motoneuron survival via paracrine signaling.
Fontana X. et al, (2012), J Cell Biol, 198, 127 - 141
© 2017 Department of Psychiatry, Warneford Hospital, Oxford, OX3 7JX
Freedom of Information Privacy Policy Copyright Statement Accessibility Statement