University of Birmingham
Alumni
Working here
Events
Visit
Dubai
Study
Research
International
Business
News
About us
Search
Home > Schools and Departments > School of Engineering > Mechanical Engineering > People > profile
Dr Marco Castellani Ph.D
In 'People'
People
Back to 'Mechanical Engineering'
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Lecturer
Contact details
Email
m.castellani@bham.ac.uk
Address
University of Birmingham
Edgbaston
Birmingham
B15 2TT
UK
Marco Castellani is lecturer at the School of Mechanical Engineering. He has done research for almost twenty years in a broad interdisciplinary area encompassing engineering, biology, and computer science. He has worked on a wide range of application areas including motor control, remote sensing, pattern recognition, optimisation, systems modelling, natural language processing, and ecological modelling. He has published over 40 research papers in scientific journals and international conferences.
He has a keen interest in evolutionary and swarm intelligence, and is particularly active in the development and characterisation of the Bees Algorithm. He is a passionate communicator on the theme of nature-inspired intelligence, and gives frequent talks on the subject.
Open all sections
Qualifications
Biography
Research
Publications
Related Schools
Department of Mechanical Engineering
School of Engineering
    Culture and collections
Schools, institutes and departments
Services and facilities
University of Birmingham
Edgbaston
Birmingham B15 2TT
United Kingdom
Main Switchboard:
Tel: +44 (0)121 414 3344
Fax: +44 (0)121 414 3971
Instagram
Facebook
Twitter
Youtube
Privacy Legal Accessibility Intranet my.bham portal Canvas Learning Environment Publication Scheme Information for Applicants Freedom of information Charitable information Cookies and cookie policy Site map Website feedback
© University of Birmingham 2017
We use cookies to track visits to our website and to deliver targeted messages about the University to users. We do not store personal details. For more information or to change your cookie settings, see our Cookie Policy. ACCEPT COOKIES What are cookies?