Skip to Main Content
main navigation bar - top row
About Us
A Performing Arts School Within a Major University
About the School
Greetings from the Dean
News
Michigan Muse
Contact Us
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Plan
Facilities
Complete List
Rental Spaces
Directions
The University of Michigan School of Music, Theatre & Dance educates the artists, scholars, educators and entrepreneurs of the future. Students are prepared with expert skills, instilled with passionate enthusiasm, and emboldened to challenge and inspire the world through the power of the performing arts.
Aaron Dworkin, Dean
Paul Boylan Collegiate Professor of Music
School of Music, Theatre & Dance
Performances & Events
Events Calendar
Month View
Day View
Search
Tickets
Join Email List
Maps & Directions
Season Brochure
Past Performances
Center Stage Strings Student-Artist Performance
Tuesdays & Thursdays @ 3:30 PM
Saturdays @ 7:00 PM, Earl V. Moore Building, Britton Recital Hall
Faculty & Staff
Alphabetical Listing
Departmental Listing
Resources
SMTD's faculty are celebrated artists and scholars who are equally acclaimed as brilliant teachers.
Adam Unsworth, Associate Professor of Horn
Departments
Chamber Music
Composition
Conducting
Dance
Jazz &
Contemporary Improvisation
Music Education
Music Theory
Musical Theatre
Musicology
Organ
Performing Arts Technology
Piano
Strings
Theatre & Drama
Voice
Winds &
Percussion
Media Gallery
Audio, Video & Photos
Archival Concert Recordings
  main navigation bar - bottom row
Prospective Students
Michigan—You Belong Here
All Prospective Students
Request Info
Schedule a Visit
Admissions FAQ
Performance Opportunities
Facilities
Info for Admitted Students
Info for Parents
apply
Undergraduate
Overview
Application Procedure
Auditions
Scholarships & Financial Aid
Degree Programs
Deadlines & Closed Programs
Orientation Info
Request Info
U-M Gateway
Graduate
SMTD Graduate Admissions
Master of Music (MM)
Specialist in Music (SM, post-Master's)
Rackham Graduate Admissions
Master of Arts (MA)
Master of Fine Arts (MFA)
Doctor of Musical Arts (DMA)
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
Certifcate of Graduate Studies (CertGrad)
Current Students
Calendars
Student Resources
Performance
Opportunities
Course Web Pages
Elections Across Fields
Student Organizations
Commencement
EXCEL Program
Michigan Artist Citizen Program
Wellness Resources
The new work by internationally renowned composer Tarik O'Regan explores themes of surveillance and privacy. Free concert takes place at Hill Auditorium on Feb. 15 at 8 pm. 
Alumni & Friends
Giving Opportunities
Make a Gift
Alumni Resources
Michigan Muse
Contacts
donate now
Michigan Muse is SMTD's alumni magazine.
Youth & Adult
About Us
Youth Education
Adult Learning
Community Outreach
Research
SMTD has partnered with the Gershwin family to bring the music of George and Ira Gershwin to students, scholars, performers and audiences across campus and worldwide.
News
American Music Institute
Gershwin Initiative
Stearns Collection
Library
Academic Departments
Additional Research Projects
Resources for Faculty
Facilities
Complete List
Rental Spaces
Directions
SMTD has an array of facilities for study, practice, research, performance, inspiration, and collaboration. Hill Auditorium (above) is one of several fine performance venues on campus.
Faculty & Staff
Alphabetical Listing
Departmental Listing
Resources
home
faculty/staff
katherine collier
Katherine Collier
Eugene Bossart Collegiate Lecturer of Collaborative Piano
kcollier@umich.edu
734-615-3729
Office: 2316 Moore
Education:
B.Mus., M.Mus., Eastman School of Music
Katherine Collier has had a distinguished and versatile career as a soloist, chamber music artist, and accompanist. After her early training in Texas, she studied piano with Cecile Genhart and accompanying with Brooks Smith. She was awarded unanimously the Performer's Certificate at Eastman.
Professor. Collier was the first prize winner of the National Young Artist's Competition and the Cliburn Scholarship Competition, and was the recipient of a Rockefeller Award. She won a Kemper Educational Grant to study at the Royal College of Music in London, England.
Ms. Collier has been soloist with orchestras in Cincinnati, Dallas, and Eastman-Rochester, and Houston, and is an active collaborator with many renowned musicians including Joshua Bell, Hilary Hahn, Ani Kavafian, Cho-Liang Lin, Andres Cardenes, Erling Bengtsson, David Shifrin, and members of the Tokyo, Emerson, Cleveland, Orion, Vermeer, Miami, Shanghai, and Ying Quartets.
She has performed around the world and appeared at recital halls in Europe such as Wigmore Hall and the Purcell Room (Southbank) in London, the Concertgebouw, the Brahms-Saal, and the Konzertsaal der Staatlichen Hochschule für Musik. She has presented concerts at Merkin Hall, the Phillips Collection, the Cleveland Museum of Art, the Dame Myra Hess Series in Chicago, and the Y Music Society in Pittsburgh. She performs at the Aspen Music Festival, Interlochen, Meadowmount, and Skaneateles. As an accompanist, Ms. Collier worked in the studios of Dorothy Delay at Aspen and Nathan Milstein and the BBC in London.
Ms. Collier tours extensively with her husband, violist Yizhak Schotten. They are founders and music directors of the Maui Classical Music Festival in Hawaii and music directors of the Strings in the Mountains Festival in Steamboat Springs. Ms. Collier appears with her husband on four compact discs on Crystal Records and has recorded with other artists on the Pandora, Pearl, Crystal, and Centaur labels. Ms. Collier previously taught at the universities of Washington, Northern Kentucky, and Wyoming.

School of Music, Theatre & Dance Faculty and Staff Directory:
Alphabetical Listing
Departmental Listing





site map
contact us
Photography Credits
Contact Webmaster: music.webmaster@umich.edu
© 2006 - 2017 The Regents of the University of Michigan