Find a Person
ONEcard
Bear Tracks
Maps
Email & Apps
eClass
Libraries
Search
Faculty of Arts
ABOUT
PROGRAMS
DEPARTMENTS
RESEARCH
STUDENT SERVICES
ALUMNI & GIVING
Home About People Collection Valentina Galvani
People Collection
Valentina Galvani, Ph.D.
Associate Professor in Economics, Associate Chair for Undergraduates Studies
Arts
Economics
7-27 Tory Building, HM
Office: 780-492-1477
vgalvani@ualberta.ca
CURRICULUM VITAE
About Me
Currently I hold the position of Associate Professor, with tenure, in the Department of Economics at the University of Alberta (Canada). I hold the Italian and Canadian citizenship. I am married and I have two young kids.

Research
My research expertise and training are those of a Financial Economist. I joined the University of Alberta in 2005, right after completing my Ph.D. in Economics (with concentration in Financial Economics) at the Krannert School of Business (Purdue University). I obtained my Master in Economics at the same institution in 2003. Previously I earned an Italian Doctoral degree in Mathematical Finance (2002) from the University of Brescia and a Laurea (Bachelor +MA thesis) in Mathematics from the University of Milan (1998). My early research contributions, stemming from my doctoral work, are in the field of General Equilibrium in asset markets, and examine the role of derivative contracts in efficient markets in infinite dimensional spaces (Lp spaces).

Over the last six years, with two six-month interruptions for maternity leaves, I have been expanding my expertise in the field of Applied Financial Economics. The latest financial crisis has had a significant impact in shaping my current research agenda. In fact, my interests veered from debating how derivatives help making a competitive security market more likely to deliver efficient allocations to examining the causes of market instability, with a focus on cross-asset flights and negative contagion. This surge of interest in market instability has been probably reinforced by a family life blessed by lively young kids. 


Teaching
Faculty of Arts
Contact Us
Arts Intranet
Arts Resource Centre
Writing@UAlberta
Contact Information
Dean of Arts: 6-5 Humanities Centre
Undergraduate Student Services: 1-17 Humanities Centre
University of Alberta
Edmonton, Alberta
Canada T6G 2E5
Tel: 780-492-ARTS (2787)
Fax: 780-492-7251
Email: artsdean@ualberta.ca
Contact Us
Feedback
University Calendar
Careers
Emergency
Policies
Weather
Edmonton
Privacy
Keep in Touch
© 2017 University of Alberta 116 St. and 85 Ave.,
Edmonton, AB, Canada T6G 2R3