Skip to content
Accessibility information
×
Search
MENU
Dr John Martino
Home Dr John Martino
Dr John Martino
PhD (La Trobe), DipEd (La Trobe), BA (FIT)
Senior Lecturer
Dr John Martino is a CRN Scholar within the Victoria Institute and a Senior Lecturer in College of Education.
He has taught in a range of settings and institutions for nearly two decades. He is an active researcher with a special interest in information technology and new media (video games) and their impact on young people and society.
Dr Martino is currently working on a long term project examining the impact of militarization on society, in particular the impact that military themed or oriented video games and emerging digital technologies have on the culture of young people and the broader society.
Dr Martino has been successful in winning both internal Victoria University and external research grants from agencies such as ARC, NCVER and Vic Health.
He has published in the fields of teacher education, educational policy and the political sociology of technology and education. He recntly published a book for Peter Lang, New York: War/Play: Video Games and the Militarization of Society.
In 2008 he was awarded an Australian Teaching and Learning Council (ALTC) national citation for his "Outstanding Contribution to Student Learning".
Recent publications
Books
Martino, J., (2015), War/Play: Video Games and the Militarization of Society. Peter Lang, New York.
Book chapters
Martino, J., (2009) "Virtual Worlds – New Possibilities in Pre-service Teacher Education". In F. Sanjakdar (et al.) ed. Digital Portfolios – Reconceptualising Inquiry in Pre – Service Teacher Education. Pearson Education Australia. Melbourne.
Martino, J. (2008) "Catching the Wave: Social Media in the Classroom". In N. Yelland, Eva Dakich & Greg Neale (Eds). Rethinking Education with ICT: New Directions for Effective Practice. Sense Publishers. Rotterdam. 2008.
Conference proceedings
Martino, J., (2012) "Video Games and the Militarisation of Society: Towards a Theoretical and Conceptual Framework", in ICT Critical Infrastructures and Society. Springer. p. 264-273.
Martino, J., (2011) "No Place for Noobs: Computer games and the Militarization of Youth Culture". 6th Global Conference: Visions of Humanity in Cyberculture, Cyberspace, and Science Fiction. Oxford, United Kingdom.
Martino, J., (2011) "Gaming and the Militarization of Youth Culture: Some Initial remarks". IADIS International Conference ICT, Society and Human Beings. Rome.
View more of Dr Martino's publications
(external link)
.
Teaching responsibilities
Year 3 Course Advisor
Unit Advisor for:
AEB3301 Inquiry into Adolescent Learning
AEB3302 Critical Practices for Secondary School Teachers
AEB3308 Humanities Pedagogy.
Postgraduate research supervision
Dr Martino is currently supervising two PhD students and co-supervising three PhD students.
Research grants
Internal funding grants from Victoria University in 2001-2012, totalling $3,000.
External research grants from Vic Health 2006 – 2010 totalling $272,242.
Professional memberships
Association for Curriculum Supervision and Design (ASCD)
International Peace Bureau
IFIP Technical Committee 9: ICT and Society (WG 9.10: ICT Uses in Peace and War)
Industry experience
Secondary School Teacher 1985-1990
Tertiary Academic 1990-1991, 1998 - current
Policy Analyst 1994-1998. 
Media appearances
Vic Health web interview "Connected Lives" Project
(external link)
Portfolios
College of Education
Areas of expertise
Humanities Pedagogy
Militarization
New media
Political sociology
Video games
Young people
Contact details
+61 3 9919 2026
john.martino@vu.edu.au
Acknowledgement of country
Victoria University acknowledges, recognises and respects the Elders, families and forebears of the Boonwurrung and Wurundjeri of the Kulin who are the traditional owners of University land.
Future students
Information for:
Early school leavers
High school students
Parents of students
Career practitioners & teachers
International students
Exchange & study abroad students
Postgraduate students
Mature age students
Staff & students
Information for:
Current students
Staff
Researchers
Alumni
Tools:
MYVU Portal
(external link)
Student email
VU Collaborate
(external link)
Call us
1300 VIC UNI
(external link)
Visit us
Find a VUHQ Student Centre
Chat open
Chat with us online
Today's chat hours:
Thu, 9:00 am – 6:00 pm (AEST)
On campus app
Campus maps, floor plans, facilities and services
(external link)
Connect
Visit VU on Twitter
(external link)
Visit VU on Facebook
(external link)
Visit VU on Twitter Youtube
(external link)
Visit VU on Instagram
(external link)
Visit VU on LinkedIn
(external link)
Visit VU on Google Plus
(external link)
Privacy
Legal
Copyright notice
Careers
Provider registration
Accessibility information
Feedback
Full sitemap
Copyright © 2017. Victoria University CRICOS Provider No. 00124K (Melbourne) and CRICOS Provider No. 02475D (Sydney). RTO Code: 3113.
Login
(external link)
VU Home
Current students
Staff
Researchers
Alumni
Library
Campuses
Contact us
CLOSE
 