###AuthorName=Andrew Leong
###AuthorTitle=JD
###Affiliation=College of Public and Community Service
###Position=Associate Professor
##############################
Skip to Content
Return to Home Page
MENU
College of Public and Community Service
Home › Academics › College of Public and Community Service › Faculty › Andrew Leong
Faculty & Staff
Andrew Leong, JD
Associate Professor of Law, Social Justice and Asian American Studies
Contact
Phone: 617.287.7243
Email: Andrew.Leong@umb.edu
Office Location: Wheatley Hall, 4th Floor, 144-14
Areas of Expertise
Law, justice, and equality pertaining to disenfranchised communities, with a focus on Asian Americans. Substantive areas include anti-Asian violence, hate crimes, immigration reform, Asian American legal history, environmental justice, anti-gentrification strategies, community lawyering.
Degrees
JD, Boston College
BA, Drake University
Professional Publications & Contributions
IN PRESS: Andrew Leong, Anti-Asian Violence. In Sana Loue & Martha Sajatovic (eds.), Encyclopedia of Immigrant Health, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2012 (USA)
IN PRESS: Andrew Leong, Chinese Exclusion Act. In Sana Loue & Martha Sajatovic (eds.), Encyclopedia of Immigrant Health, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2012 (USA)
Andrew Leong, The Struggle over Parcel C: How Boston’s Chinatown Won a Victory in the Fight Against Institutional Expansionism and Environmental Racism. IN Asian American Studies Now: A Critical Reade. Edited and with an Introduction by Jean Yu-Wen Shen Wu and Thomas Chen, Rutgers U. Press, 2010
Andrew Leong, Commentary, "Casino: Creating Another Injustice, The Chinatown Plan is a Burden, and Not Just Because of Gambling Addictions." Philadelphia Inquirer, Nov. 10, 2008.
Zenobia Lai, Andrew Leong, "From the Community Lawyer's Lens: The Case of the 'Quincy 4' and Challenges to Securing Civil Rights for Asian Americans," Asian American Law Journal, pp. 73-128, Vol. 15, May 2008.
Leong, Andrew “Beyond the Egg Rolls, Fortune Cookies and Paper Fans: Seeing the Residential Side of Chinatown.” In Teaching about Asian Pacific Islanders: Effective Activities, Strategies, and Assignments for Classrooms and Workshops. Edith Wen-Chu Chen and Glenn Omatsu, Editors. (AltaMira Press) pp. 286-302. (2006).
Brugge, Doug, Andrew Leong, Abigail Averbach, and Fu Mei Cheung, “Urban Development and Transportation; An environmental health survey of residents of Boston Chinatown.” In Community Research in Environmental Health: Studies in Science, Advocacy and Ethics. Doug Brugge and H. Patricia Hynes, Editors. (Ashgate Press) pp. 145-68. (2005).
Doug Brugge, Andrew Leong, Amy Law, “Environmental Health in Boston Chinatown.” In Asian Americans: Vulnerable Populations, Model Interventions, and Clarifying Agendas, edited by Lin Zhan. Jones and Bartlett (Sudbury , MA) pp. 43-67. 2003.
Leong, Andrew, "Impact, Reaction And Action: How Two Different Public Policy Reforms Shape, And Reveal The Shape, Of Asian Pacific America." In the anthology: Intersections and Divergences: Contemporary Asian Pacific American Communities, edited by Linda Trinh Vo and Rick Bonus. Temple University Press (Philadelphia, PA) 2002.
Leong, Andrew, “A Case Against Liberty,” Pacific Citizen (Monterey Park , CA ), Vol. 135, No. 11, December 2002, p. 28
Additional Information
Andrew Leong is an associate professor at CPCS. He has taught at CPCS since 1990. His specialty is on law, justice, and equality pertaining to disenfranchised communities, with a focus on Asian Americans. From 1987 to 1993 he was clinical director of the Chinatown Clinical Program at Boston College Law School. He was supervising attorney of the Asian Outreach Unit at Greater Boston Legal Services from 1986 to 1990.
Professor Leong is a graduate of Drake University (1982-BA) in Des Moines, Iowa and Boston College Law School (1985-JD) in Newton, Massachusetts.
He is active in community and civil rights work, having served on the Board of Trustee of numerous Asian American and civil rights related organizations (e.g. Asian American Resource Workshop, Asian Community Development Corporation, the Chinatown Quincy School Community Council, the Executive Committee of the Greater Boston Civil Rights Coalition, the Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination, The Institute for Affirmative Action, the Fair Housing Center of Greater Boston, and the Steering Committee of the Lawyers' Committee For Civil Rights Under Law).
Professor Leong also served as the President of the Asian American Lawyers Association of Massachusetts from 1989 to 1994. During the same period he was also President of the Harry H. Dow Memorial Legal Assistance Fund. He has fought numerous episodes of environmental injustice in Boston 's Chinatown neighborhood and chairs "The Campaign to Protect Chinatown."
Professor Leong has further provided legal representation and technical assistance to victims of anti-Asian violence. He was the legal counsel for thirteen victims of an anti-Asian bias hate incident at Tufts University and successfully negotiated an agreement where the perpetrator admitted to his actions. Professor Leong also provided legal counsel and training on a case where more than thirty Asian students were systematically beaten on one day in South Philadelphia High School.
Professor Leong has written about welfare and immigration reform, hate crimes, environmental justice, and community lawyering.
Accessibility Statement
Campus Status
Diversity/ADA
Document Converter
Employment
Privacy & Terms
Student Consumer Information
UMass Boston Alert
UMass System
Contact UMass Boston
© 2017 University of Massachusetts Boston
100 William T. Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125-3393 | Tel: 617.287.5000