###AuthorName=Nicholas C. Bala
###AuthorTitle=Professor
###Affiliation=Faculty of Law
###Position=
##############################
Skip to main content
Faculty of Law
Queen's University
Sign in to
Sign in to:
MyQueen'sU - SOLUS, MyHR and more
Office 365
onQ
Faculty180 - CV and Reports to the Dean
Library eReserves
Web Proxy
Business - Program Portals
Education - Intranet
Medicine - MEdTech Central
Law - QLaw
Policy Studies - Program Portal
Change password / Manage NetID
Pages
People
Search Queen's
Home
About
JD Admissions
JD Studies
Graduate Program
Faculty & Research
Alumni/Donors
Contact
QLaw Portal
Search form
Search
You are here
Home » Faculty & Research » Faculty Directory » Nick Bala
  Nicholas (Nick) Bala is an internationally recognized expert on issues related to children, youth and families in the justice system, and teaches in that area as well as Contract Law.
He graduated from Queen’s law school in 1977, and then articled in Ottawa, worked as Review Counsel at Queen’s Legal Aid, and obtained a LL.M. from Harvard. Since 1980 he has been a Professor Queen's, as well as a Visiting Professor at McGill, Duke and the University of Calgary. Since 2006 he has also been the Academic Director for the Osgoode Hall Law School Family Law LL.M. Program (part-time professional degree) in Toronto.
Prof. Bala is an expert on Family and Children’s Law, with research focussing on issues related to parental separation issues including parental alienation and relocation; children in the family courts, including role of child’s counsel and judicial interviewing of children; spousal abuse and its effects on children; young offenders; children in the criminal courts; and access to family justice. Much of his research work is interdisciplinary; he has undertaken many collaborative projects with psychologists, social workers, criminologists and health professionals to better understand the effects of involvement in the justice system on children, youth and families. He has published extensively in journals in law, medicine, psychology and social work, and has written or coauthored 20 books. His work is often quoted by all levels of court in Canada, including the Supreme Court and courts of appeal across the country, and has also been cited by courts in the United States, Britain and Australia.  
Prof. Bala was awarded the Queen’s University Prize for Excellence in Research in 2006, and the Stanley Cohen Distinguished Research Award of the AFCC (Association of Family & Conciliation Court). He has written or co-authored 20 books and over 150 articles and book chapters.  He is frequently invited to speak at law reform conferences and professional education programs for judges, lawyers, doctors, psychologists, child welfare workers, and social workers. His contributions to family law research and professional education were recognized in awards from Ontario’s Law Society and the Ontario Bar Association in 2009, and in 2013 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada.
Prof. Bala has worked with Canada’s National Judicial Institute on planning and delivering educational programs for judges on such issues as high conflict separations, child witnesses, domestic violence and young offenders. He has presented briefs to Parliamentary Committees in Canada on many issues related to families, children and the justice system, and has appeared as an expert witness at public inquiries related to children and youth.  He has been a consultant and written reports for the federal government, and provincial and territorial governments and their agencies in Ontario, Alberta, British Columbia and the Yukon, and played a significant role in such developments as changing the laws governing the assessment of the competency of child witnesses, facilitating the use of expert evidence in child-related cases, establishing advocacy agencies for children, and domestic violence.
Prof. Bala is a member of the Board of the Canadian Research Institute on Law and the Family, and the Ontario Chapter of the Association of Family and Conciliation Courts. 
Research:
Family Law
Children's Law
Contract Law
Recent Professional Achievements:
Co-author of recent reports for government of Canada on family violence, child witnesses in the criminal justice system, and parental relocation after separation.
Frequently presenting to professional groups on issues relating to family and children's law, for such organizations as National Judicial Institute, Federation of Law Societies, Ontario Bar Association and Law Society of Upper Canada
Three times winner of Law Students Society teaching award
Ontario Bar Association, Award for Excellence in Family Law, 2009
Law Society Medal, 2009
Elected Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada, 2013
Principal investigator of interdisciplinary group of researchers on child witness issues with funding from Social Sciences & Humanities Research Council, 1999 - 2014
Principal investigator of interdisciplinary group of researchers on improving access and outcomes in the family justice system with funding from Social Sciences & Humanities Research Council, 2014 -2019.
Work cited by all levels of court in Canada, including 29 times by the Supreme Court of Canada, as well as courts in the United States, Great Britain and Australia.
Recent Books:
For a complete list of publications, please consult Professor Bala's CV.
Swan, Reiter & Bala, Contracts: Cases, Notes & Materials (9th edit.; Butterworths, Toronto, 2015)
Bala & Anand, Youth Criminal Justice Law(3rd edit), Toronto, Irwin Law, 2012.
Fidler, Bala & Saini, Children Resisting Post-Separation Contact: A Differential Approach for Legal and Mental Professionals (Oxford University Press, New York: 2012)
Fidler, Bala & Hurwitz, Best Practice Guide: Emotional Abuse and Parent-Child Contact Problems in High Conflict Separations (Toronto High Conflict Forum, 2013)
Reports for Governments and Non-Governmental Organizations
Contact
Nicholas C. Bala
Professor, Queen's Law
L.S.M., B.A. (Toronto), J.D. (Queen's), LL.M. (Harvard)
613-533-6000 ext. 74275
Room 501, Macdonald Hall
Email
SSRN
CV
Nick Bala
Bala on SSRN
JUN
15
New: Family Violence and Proving ‘Grave Risk’ for Cases under the...
FEB
24
New: Recognizing Ethical Duties of Parents’ Lawyers to Children of...
FEB
17
New: Costs and the Changing Culture of Canadian Family Justice
More
Queen's University
128 Union Street
Kingston, Ontario, Canada
K7L 3N6
Accessibility
News
Events
Faculty in the News
Give
Portal
University Registrar
ITServices
Connect with Queen's on Facebook  Connect with Queen's on Twitter  Connect with Queen's on LinkedIn