###AuthorName=Jeremy Brownlie
###AuthorTitle=Dr
###Affiliation=School of Natural Sciences
###Position=Deputy Head
##############################
Griffith University
myGriffith
Staff portal
Contact us
Search
Study
International
Research
Industry
Alumni
About Griffith
Staff
Home > Science and Aviation > School of Natural Sciences > Our experts > Dr Jeremy Brownlie
Dr Jeremy Brownlie
School of Natural Sciences
Research
Learning & teaching
Aviation
Industry
Our experts
Program directors
Discipline heads
Contact us
B Science(Hons), PhD
Deputy Head of School, School of Natural Sciences
Contact details for Dr Jeremy Brownlie
Research Expertise
Animals are host to a wide and diverse range of bacteria that can impact upon, or are required to maintain proper health. An emerging area of research are the impacts that bacteria have on animal behaviour, which for many years have focused exclusively on genetics and the surrounding environment. By combining molecular, and whole organismal techniques my research group seeks to:
Identify which bacteria influence complex behaviours in sleep, learning and memory. 
Determine how are such changes achieved at a gene, biochemical and physiological scale.
Insects are commonly infected by a bacterial endosymbiont called Wolbachia, which has been shown to disrupt the replication of viruses within insects. How Wolbachia disrupts viral replication is unclear. My research group seeks to answer:
How Wolbachia protect insect hosts against other pathogens such as viruses and fungi?
Can Wolbachia be developed as a biological control agent to control the spread of insect transmitted viruses?
Temporary medical implants, such as intravenous needles and catheters, that remain within a patient for extended periods of time are prone to bacterial colonization and biofilm formation. When established these bacterial communities are highly resistant to antibiotic treatment. There is a need to establish rapid quantitate methods that can identify important bacterial species. In collaboration with the School of Nursing and local hospitals in Brisbane, we seek to:
Develop novel quantitative diagnostic tools to monitor the causal agents of infections within a clinical setting.
HDR supervision
PhD students
Ms Chelsie Rohrscheib, “Determining the effect Wolbachia pipientis has on insect neurological function and behaviour” (Co-supervised, Dr Michael Weible II)
Ms Salma Ibsais Lajhar, “Survival of E. coli O26 through production of dairy products” (Co-supervised, Dr Robert Barlow, CSIRO)
Ms Hannah Leeson, “A Phagocytic Role for P2X7 Receptors during Adult Hippocampal Neurogenesis” (Co-supervised, Dr Michael Weible II)
Mr Yasir Mehmood, “Molecular identification, tracking and potential for selective evolution of Ascochyta rabiei” (Co-supervised, A/Prof Rebecca Ford)
Ms Sheen Wong, “Wolbachia-mediated antiviral protection in Drosophila” (Co-supervised, Dr Karyn Johnson, UQ)
MSc Students
Maddie Williams, “Development of molecular diagnostic tools for mapping the causal agents of catheter infections in hospital settings” (Co-supervised, A/Prof. Rebecca Ford, Dr Li Zhang)
Reece Courtney, “An ethnopharmacological-investigation of native Terminalia in the treatment auto-immune disorders.” (Co-supervised, Dr Ian Cock)
Shweta Murhekar, “Identification and characterisation of medicinal compounds in leaves and fruits of Sygium species” (Co-supervised, Dr Ian Cock)
Current Teaching Areas
Genetics and Evolutionary Biology
Molecular Biology
Convenorships
Program Director: Bachelor of Science
Genetics and Evolutionary Biology (2014)
Functional and Molecular Genetics (2009-2013)
Bioinformatics (2009-2013)
Teaching awards
Group Learning and Teaching Citation (2011)
Excellence in Teaching Award (Early Career, 2012)
Learning and Teaching Commendation (Griffith University top 5% SET rating) 
Excellent Course Outcome (1006BPS Functional and Molecular Genetics top 5% SEC rating)
Highest ranked Lecturer of Griffith University and Top 100 Australian Lectures (UniJobs, 2014)
Key publications
(Past 5 years)
Wolbachia Influences the Production of Octopamine and Affects Drosophila Male Aggression.Chelsie E Rohrscheib, Elizabeth Bondy, Peter Josh, Markus Riegler, Darryl Eyles, Bruno van Swinderen, Michael W Weible, Jeremy C Brownlie. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2015 Jul;81(14):4573-80. 
Symbiont-mediated protection in insect hosts. JC Brownlie, KN Johnson. Trends in microbiology 17 (8), 348-354
Wolbachia and virus protection in insects. LM Hedges, JC Brownlie, SL O'Neill, KN Johnson Science 322 (5902), 702-702
For additional publications, please see Griffith Research Online
Patents
Modified arthropod and method of use (14/304,919) Scott Leslie O'neill, Conor James McMeniman, Karyn Nicole Johnson, Elizabeth Ann McGraw, Luciano A Moreira, Peter Anthony Ryan, Brian Herbert Kay, Jeremy Colin Brownlie
Membership of learned societies
Science and Technology Australia (Executive Committee and Board, Secretary)
Genetics of AustralAsia (Executive Committee, State representative)
American Society of Microbiology
Recent grants
Australian Research Council: DP1092492.
Griffith University Research Infrastructure Grant
Griffith University Medical Research Grant
Study areas
Business and government
Criminology and law
Education
Engineering and IT
Environment, planning and architecture
Medicine, Dentistry and Health
Humanities and languages
Music
Science and aviation
Visual and creative arts
Online degrees
Campuses
Gold Coast campus
Logan campus
Mount Gravatt campus
Nathan campus
South Bank campus
Getting to Griffith
Cycling
Intercampus bus
Maps
Parking
On campus
Accommodation
Aquatic and Fitness Centre
Clubs
Griffith College
Health Clinics
Library
Medical
Shops
Sport
What's on
Support
Childcare
Fees and charges
Griffith Pay
Griffith Honours College
GUMURRII Student Support Unit
Information services
International
Printing services
Room bookings
Student services
Academic groups
Arts, Education and Law
Griffith Business School
Griffith Health
Griffith Sciences
Contact us
Emergency information
Media
Security
Addresses
Email
Phone
Need help?
Ask us
Provide feedback
Privacy plan
Copyright matters
CRICOS Provider - 00233E
Gold Coast
Logan
Brisbane
Australia
First Peoples of Australia 
Aboriginal 
Torres Strait Islander