###AuthorName=Jörgen Eksell
###AuthorTitle=
###Affiliation=Department of Strategic Communication
###Position=researcher, teacher and director
##############################
Hoppa till huvudinnehåll
LUNDS UNIVERSITET FIRAR 350 ÅR. LÄS MER PÅ LU.SE
LYSSNA MED TALANDE WEBB
THIS SITE IN ENGLISH
AKTIVERA TALANDE WEBB
Institutionen för strategisk kommunikation
SAMHÄLLSVETENSKAPLIGA FAKULTETEN | LUNDS UNIVERSITET
ISK Medarbetarwebb
Studentportalen Live@Lund
Studentportalen Mitt Campus
Bibliotek
Start
Om institutionen
Utbildning
Forskning
Kontakt
Du är här
Start › People
Samtlig personal
Forskare
Rickard Andersson
Cecilia Cassinger
Asta Cepaite
Jörgen Eksell
Jesper Falkheimer
Nils Gustafsson
Mats Heide
Henrik Merkelsen
Camilla Nothhaft
Howard Nothhaft
James Pamment
Maria Rosén
Charlotte Simonsson
Åsa Thelander
Hui Zhao
Sara von Platen
Marja Åkerström
Jörgen Eksell
STUDIEREKTOR
I am working as researcher, teacher and director of studies at the Department of Strategic Communication, Lund University.
Research interest
My main research interest lies in the field of marketing communication and service studies, and more specifically communication connected to issues such as brand communication, value creation and hospitality. In addition I am also interested in qualitative methods in strategic communication and perhaps more specifically ethnography.
Brand communication
My interest in brand communication has to a large extent been connected to the service industry and how new and sometimes disputed form forms of branding practices have become prevalent in the service industry. More specifically I am interested in how front staff personnel are used as ambassadors for brands, and how the service providers themselves understand och form strategies and practices for communicating the brand values.
During the last year, my interest in branding practices has broadened to include place, city and regional branding.  I work in an ongoing project with Cecilia Cassinger on the regional brand the Family Helsingborg (Familjen Helsingborg). Some empirical data has been collected during 2014, and we are planning a couple of papers during 2015.
Value creation
Research in service management and marketing has in the past decade highlighted the concept of value creation. In service organizations value creation is described as a process in which the customer uses a company's value proposition in a meaningful way. However, research has tended to ignore the contextual meaning, and few empirical studies have shown how context is relevant.
In my doctoral dissertation Value creating Hospitality: how values of hospitality are framed, established and negotiated in the hotel industry (in Swedish), in service studies at the Department of service management and service studies at Lund University, I explore this problem.
The findings shows that value is created, established and negotiated when interpersonal strategies and tactics, organizational procedures such as the check-in, and service strategies, are interwoven with social and cultural values that frame services, equipment and facilities as attractive. The conclusions suggest that creation of value is a complex phenomenon, consisting of processes that are rarely highlighted in service management and marketing. In order to highlight the interwoven, procedural character of these constellations, the concept of value transition is introduced. The concept of value transition encompasses the relevant phenomenon, and thus has an ontological focus that enables analytical sharpness. The results show that the theoretical foundations of how value is to be broadened in order to highlight the multiple, disparate processes and especially highlighting how they interact in different situations.
Teaching
I am currently involved in undergraduate and postgraduate teaching within the following subject areas: qualitative methods, marketing and marketing communication, strategic brand communication, and hospitality studies.
Research interests/ key words: value co-creation, value proposition, service work, service branding, place branding, hospitality, marketing communication, and ethnography.
Commissioned research and education
In 2015 I will be course coordinator for a course in Strategic Communication given to communicator at Region Skåne. Together with a team of collegues I will give a course that focus on themes as strategic communication, branding of public organisations, communication planning, change communication and the use of social media in communicating with the public.
In 2013 I evaluated Drick Tapwater (Drick Kranvatten), a communication project, aimed to affect young people’s awareness and attitude towards tap water. In the evaluation I analyzed a survey and interviewed pupils and teachers at the schools that participated in the project.
  Publikationer
Hämtat ur Lunds universitets publikationsdatabas
2017
The magic of place branding: regional brand identity in transition
2016
Translating public diplomacy and nation branding in Scandinavia : An institutional approach to the Cartoon Crises
2015
Varumärke för alla
2014
Att kombinera intervju med observation
Att utgå från ett historiskt perspektiv i strategisk kommunikation
Inledning
Kvalitativ analys inom strategisk kommunikation
2013
Drick kranvatten. Ett kommunikationsprojekt i VA-Branschen. Dokumentation och utvärdering
Värdeskapande gästfrihet. Hur gästfrihet som värde ramas in, etableras och förhandlas i hotellbranschen
2007
The hotel check-in as a rite of incorporation: Enchantments of inclusion and exclusion
2005
Teorier om servicemötet - en historisk beskrivning
Redaktör
2014
Kvalitativa metoder i strategisk kommunikation
2016-03-22
Jörgen Eksell
E-post: jorgen.eksell@isk.lu.se
Studierektor för GU
Institutionen för strategisk kommunikation
Telefon:+46 42 35 66 17
Rumsnummer:C322, Campus Hbg
Lärare
Institutionen för strategisk kommunikation
Projektledare
Institutionen för strategisk kommunikation
Min profil i Lunds universitets forskningsportal
facebookinstagram
Institutionen för strategisk kommunikation
Lunds Universitet | Campus Helsingborg
Besök: Universitetsplatsen 2 Helsingborg
Postadress: Box 882, 251 08 Helsingborg
Telefon: 042-35 65 95
E-post: info@isk.lu.se
Samhällsvetenskapliga fakulteten | Campus Helsingborg
Den här webbplatsen använder kakor för att ge dig som besökare en bättre användarupplevelse. Genom att surfa vidare på denna webbplats godkänner du att vi använder kakor.
Jag förstår Läs mer om kakor