###AuthorName=Dacia Viejo Rose
###AuthorTitle=Dr
###Affiliation=Division of Archaeology
###Position=
##############################
skip to primary navigation
skip to content
Study at Cambridge
About the University
Research at Cambridge
Quick links
Log in
Home
Division of Archaeology
People
Dr Dacia Viejo Rose
Division of Archaeology
Home
About Us
About Us Overview
Mesopotamia at Cambridge
Mesopotamia at Cambridge Overview
Ancient Mesopotamia - an overview
Ancient Mesopotamia - an overview Overview
Mesopotamian Languages
Mesopotamian Archaeology
Studying Mesopotamia at Cambridge
Studying Mesopotamia at Cambridge Overview
Undergraduate Studies
Graduate Studies
Funding
Mesopotamian Research at Cambridge
Mesopotamian Research at Cambridge Overview
Kilise Tepe
Tell Brak
Ziyaret Tepe
Geography of Knowledge in Assyria and Babylonia
People working on Mesopotamia
People working on Mesopotamia Overview
Teaching Staff
Research Fellows and Associates
PhD Students
Recent PhD students
Mesopotamianists formerly in Cambridge
The Research Seminar Series
Mesopotamian Funding Information
The Cambridge Mesopotamia Diary
The Cambridge Assyriology Funds
Egyptology at Cambridge
Heritage at Cambridge
Heritage at Cambridge Overview
Cambridge Heritage Seminar 18 (2017)
Fieldwork Opportunities
Access Cambridge Archaeology
Cambridge Archaeological Unit
Personal Histories
Personal Histories Overview
Forthcoming Events
Finding and contacting us
People
People Overview
Academic Staff
Affiliated Lecturers
Archaeology Directors of Studies
Researchers
Graduate Students
Senior Fellows
Honorary Research Associates
Cambridge Archaeological Unit Staff
Administrative and Support Staff
Laboratory Members
Laboratory Members Overview
Charles McBurney Laboratory
George Pitt-Rivers Laboratory
Glyn Daniel Laboratory
Grahame Clark Laboratory
Dorothy Garrod Laboratory
Material Culture Laboratory
McDonald Institute for Archaeological Research
Seminar groups
Our Research
Our Research Overview
Research Themes
Research Projects
Research Projects Overview
EPOCH - Early POpulations in Cretan History
EPOCH - Early POpulations in Cretan History Overview
Dissemination activities
Photos and videos
The Cambridge Keros Project
The Cambridge Keros Project Overview
2006-2008 Excavations
The Keros Island Survey 2012-2013
Keros-Naxos Seaways 2015-2018
Publications
Contact Us
image12fig19P1120211.JPG
NEMO-ADAP Project
NEMO-ADAP Project Overview
Project - Overview
Middle Dniestr Valley Survey Project and Upper Tisza Valley Project
Middle Dniestr Valley Survey Project
Upper Tisza Valley Project
Kostenki Project
Funding Bodies
Team Members
News
Publications and Presentations
NEMO-ADAP Workshop I
Early Upper Palaeolithic Landscapes Workshop 2
PROCON Project
PROCON Project Overview
About
Output
Publications
Contact
MAKING CITIES 18-19 May 2017
Making Cities Program
Making Cities Program Overview
Making Cities Program
TwoRains Project
TwoRains Project Overview
TwoRains Work Packages
People
News and Media
Publications
TwoRains Blog
DIGIFACT
DIGIFACT Overview
About
Publications
Conferences and Public Engagement
Teaching
Contact
DivMeanBody
DivMeanBody Overview
Contact
Română
After the Plague
Laboratories
Laboratories Overview
The Charles McBurney Laboratory for Geoarchaeology
The Charles McBurney Laboratory for Geoarchaeology Overview
Facilities
Projects
Dissertations
People in the McBurney Lab
Useful Links
Contacing Us
The George Pitt-Rivers Laboratory for Bioarchaeology
The George Pitt-Rivers Laboratory for Bioarchaeology Overview
Resources
Projects
Dissertations
People in the Pitt-Rivers Lab
Useful Links
Contacting Us
SEM Booking
Leica Booking
Zeiss Booking
The Grahame Clark Laboratory for Zooarchaeology
The Grahame Clark Laboratory for Zooarchaeology Overview
News
Facilities
Projects
Publications
People in the Grahame Clark Lab
Useful Links
Contacting Us
The Glyn Daniel Laboratory for Archaeogenetics
The Glyn Daniel Laboratory for Archaeogenetics Overview
Laboratory News
Laboratory Members
Projects
CorrSieve
Consensus Confidence Program
Glyn Daniel
Teaching
The Dorothy Garrod Laboratory for Isotopic Analysis
The Dorothy Garrod Laboratory for Isotopic Analysis Overview
People in the Dorothy Garrod Lab
Current Projects
Working in the Lab and Collaborations
Collaborators and Useful Links
Laboratory Facilities
Laboratory Documentation (Restricted Access)
Who was Dorothy Garrod?
Contacting Us
The Material Culture Laboratory
PAVE: Phenotypic Adaptability, Variation and Evolution Research Group
Computational and Digital Archaeology Laboratory
The Henry Wellcome Genetics Laboratories
The Henry Wellcome Genetics Laboratories Overview
Contacting Us
Videos
Study with Us
Study with Us Overview
Prospective Undergraduate Students
Prospective Undergraduate Students Overview
Undergraduate Archaeology at Cambridge
Course Structure
Field Trips and Excavation
Museums and Laboratories
Careers
How Do I Apply?
Open Days and Outreach Events
Open Days and Outreach Events Overview
Homerton College Archaeology Summer School 2017
Annual Egypt and Mesopotamia Conference for Sixth Formers
Annual Egypt and Mesopotamia Conference for Sixth Formers Overview
2017
2016
Prospective International Undergraduate Students
Prospective MPhil Students
Prospective MPhil Students Overview
MPhil in Archaeology
MPhil in Archaeology Overview
Archaeological Heritage and Museums
Archaeological Science
Archaeology of the Americas
Egyptian Archaeology
European Prehistory
Medieval Archaeology
Mesopotamian Archaeology
Palaeolithic and Mesolithic Archaeology
South Asian Archaeology
MPhil in Archaeological Research
MPhil in Egyptology
MPhil in Assyriology
MPhil Modules
Prospective Ph.D Students
Funding for Undergraduate Students
Funding for Graduate Students
Resources
Work with Us
Work with Us Overview
Job Vacancies
Careers for archaeology graduates
  Dr Dacia Viejo Rose
Division of Archaeology
About Us
People
Academic Staff
Affiliated Lecturers
Archaeology Directors of Studies
Researchers
Graduate Students
Senior Fellows
Honorary Research Associates
Cambridge Archaeological Unit Staff
Administrative and Support Staff
Laboratory Members
McDonald Institute for Archaeological Research
Seminar groups
Our Research
Study with Us
Resources
Work with Us
Lecturer in Heritage and the Politics of the Past
British Academy Post-doctoral Fellow (2012-2014)
Cultural Heritage
Conflict and its aftermath
Crisis and Risk
Displacement
Reparations
Dacia Viejo Rose is accepting applications for PhD students.
Dacia Viejo Rose is available for consultancy.
G3, Courtyard Building
McDonald Institute for Archaeological Research
Downing Street
Cambridge CB2 3DZ
Email: dv230@cam.ac.uk
Office Phone: 01223 339286
Websites:
http://cambridge.academia.edu/DaciaViejoRose/About
Download as vCard
Subject groups/Research projects
Heritage:
Research Interests
My research interests lie at the nexus between cultural heritage and the politics of the past. At the moment my work focuses on violence - including dynamics threat, fear, anxiety, uncertainty, and risk. I am especially interested in how cultural heritage is used, and abused, during armed conflicts to divide, exclude, and intimidate. The motivation behind this line of questioning is to try and discover potential mechanisms for ‘disarming’ heritage so that it can be a tool for constructive dialogue, dignity, and respect.
Coming out of, and feeding into, this main line of my research are others such as trying to understand how developments in the neuroscience of memory might be applied to heritage studies, and the relationship between cultural and natural heritage.
Until now, the study of the destruction of cultural heritage during wars has focused on the material damage suffered by sites or on the looting of objects. This focus on material destruction has overlooked what might be underlying this form of violence. The proposed research project will further develop the theory of ‘cultural violence’, applying it to violent acts against cultural heritage. It is hoped that the insights gained from this work will help inform national policies more likely to strengthen plural societies. On an international level this research could help develop practical tools for agencies working on post-conflict reconstruction projects and strengthen measures for protecting heritage sites during conflicts.
Research Supervision
Currently supervising:
Tom Crowley (PhD candidate), research project:  "Marrying particularity with universality in the Kalash Valleys, Pakistan"
Mathilde Leloup (PhD candidate, Sciences Po Paris), research project: "The integrattion of cultural heritage protection in the mandate of UN Peace Operations"
Alicia Stevens (MPhil candidate), research project: "Museums as Agents of Cultural Diplomacy: The case of post-sanctions Myanmar"
Alisa Santikarn (MPhil candidate), research project: "Negotiating Conflicting Values: Applying Nature Conservation Frameworks to Cultural Heritage"
Teaching
Coordinating and teaching on module G31 (Management of the Archaeological Heritage)
Teaching on module G29 (Sociopolitics of the Past)
Occasional lecturing on modules G02 (Core Archaeology) and ARC6 (ARC6 Archaeological Theory and Practice I)
  Other Professional Activities
Member of the Advisory Panel of Spain NOW! (http://www.spain-now.org.uk/) an annual season of contemporary art and culture from Spain that takes place in London.
Keywords
Material Culture
Migration and Mobility
Urbanism
The Mediterranean
Cognition and Culture
Archaeology
Landscape
Collaborators
Dr Gillian Carr
Dr Paola Filippucci
Prof Marie Louise Stig Sørensen
Key Publications
2016.  “Eternal, Impossible, Returns: Variations on the Theme of Dislocation” in Carroll, Khadija von Zinnenburg (ed), The importance of being anachronistic: contemporary Aboriginal art and museum reparations, published by Discipline in association with Third Text Publications: Melbourne, Victoria; pp.103-130. 
2015    Cultural heritage and memory: untangling the ties that bind”, in Culture & History. Digital Journal, vol. 4, no 2, doi: http://dx.doi.org/10.3989/chdj.2015.018
2015    (ed. with M.L.S.Sørensen) War and Cultural Heritage: Biographies of Place.  Cambridge: CUP. And chapters therein: Introduction: the impact of conflict on cultural heritage: a biographical lens (with M.L.S.Sørensen), 1-17; The materiality of tradition and power in the post-civil war reconstruction of Gernika’s Foru Plaza, 69-97.
2014    “Identité et mémoire d’après-guerre: la destruction et la reconstruction du patrimoine culturel en Espagne et en Bosnie” in V. Négri (eds.), Le Patrimoine culturel, cible des conflits armés. De la guerre civile espagnole aux guerres du 21e siècle. Bruxelles: Bruylant, pp. 101-118.
2013    “Patrimonio cultural armado : La violencia cultural y simbólica” in C. Ortíz (ed) Lugares de represión, paisajes de la memoria. Aspectos materiales y simbólicos de la cárcel de Carabanchel. Madrid : Catarata, pp. 21-27.
2013    “Reconstructing Heritage in the Aftermath of Civil War: Re-visioning the Nation and the Implications of International Involvement” in the Journal of Intervention and Statebuilding, vol. 7/ issue 2, 2013, pp.125-48.
2011    “Memorial Functions: Intent, Impact and the Right to Remember” in Memory Studies, October, issue 4.4.
2011    Reconstructing Spain: Cultural Heritage and Memory after Civil War. Brighton: Sussex Academic Press.
2011    “Destruction and Reconstruction of Heritage: Impacts on Memory and Identity” in Y.R. Isar, H. Anheier & D. Viejo-Rose (eds), Cultures and Globalization Series, vol. 4, Heritage, Memory and Identity. London: Sage, pp. 53-69.  
2007    “Conflict and the Deliberate Destruction of Cultural Heritage” in Y.R. Isar and H. Anheier (eds), Cultures and Globalization Series, vol.1, Conflicts and Tensions. London: Sage, pp. 102-116.
  Other Publications
2017. “Cultural Heritage and Politics of the Past: An Interview with Dacia Viejo-Rose”, in EuropeNow, April 2017 issue. Columbia University: New York. www.europenowjournal.org/2017/04/03/cultural-heritage-and-politics-of-the-past-an-interview-with-dacia-viejo-rose/
2014  “Cultural Heritage Management and Armed Conflict ” in C. Smith (Editor-in-Chief). Encyclopaedia of Global Archaeology. New York: Springer Reference, pp. 1870-1875.
2014    “Entrevista: Dacia Viejo-rose: ‘El patrimonio cultural: ¿potenciador de diálogo y sentido unificador o de desencuentro y violencia?’” in revista ph, n. 85 of the Instituto Andaluz del Patrimonio Histórico, April 2014, 232-236.
2013    “Review of Exhuming Loss” in Cambridge Archaeological Journal, vol. 23, issue 1, February pp. 129-130.
2013    “Review of A European Memory? Contested Histories and Politics of Remembrance”, in the journal of Southeast European and Black Sea Studies, vol. 13, issue 1.
2012    “Cultural Destruction” in H. Anheier, M. Juergensmeyer, V. Faessel (eds.), Encyclopaedia of Global Studies. London: Sage, pp. 322-325.
2003    “Issues of Evaluation in Humanitarian Arts Projects”, in Y.R. Isar (ed.) Artistic Activism: Towards an evaluation of the use of cultural activities in situations of conflict.  Brussels: IETM, pp. 38-50.
Co-authored work
2015    D. Viejo-Rose and M.L.S. Sørensen, “Cultural Heritage and Conflict: new questions for an old relationship“ in E. Waterton and S. Watson (eds) A Companion to Contemporary Heritage Research.  Basingstoke & NY: Palgrave McMillan.
2011    Isar, Y.R., D. Viejo-Rose and H.K. Anheier, “Introduction” in Isar, Anheier and Viejo-Rose (eds), Cultures and Globalization Series, vol. 4, Heritage, Memory and Identity. London: Sage, pp. 1-20.
Contact us
Postal Address:
Division of Archaeology, Downing Street,
Cambridge, CB2 3DZ
Information provided by:
   outreach@arch.cam.ac.uk
Find out more
Mesopotamia at Cambridge
Egyptology at Cambridge
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Instagram
© 2015 University of Cambridge
University A-Z
Contact the University
Accessibility
Freedom of information
Terms and conditions
Study at Cambridge
Undergraduate
Graduate
International students
Continuing education
Executive and professional education
Courses in education
About the University
How the University and Colleges work
Visiting the University
Map
News
Events
Jobs
Give to Cambridge
Research at Cambridge
News
Features
Discussion
Spotlight on...
About research at Cambridge