###AuthorName=Selina Chen-Kiang
###AuthorTitle=Professor
###Affiliation=Medical College
###Position=
##############################
VIVO
Weill Cornell Medical College
Index
Log in
Home
People
Organizations
Research
Support
Selina Chen-Kiang   Professor of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine
Publications
Research
Background
Contact
Other
Phone
+1 212 746 6440
Professor of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Pathology and Laboratory Medicine , Weill Cornell Medical College 1996 -
Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, Microbiology and Immunology , Weill Cornell Medical College 1997 - 2017
CELL CYCLE CONTROL OF B CELL IMMUNITY and CANCER
Cell cycle control and apoptosis are two major determinants of homeostasis in physiologic response and cancer. Our goal is to combine genetic, molecular and biochemical approaches to defining the mechanism that underlies cell cycle control of B cell immunity and tumorigenesis. Specifically, we want to understand how the cell cycle integrates antigen and cytokine signals to control B cell activation, expansion, and terminal differentiation to non-cycling, antibody-secreting plasma cells; and how the cell cycle is coupled to apoptotic control in B cell immunity. In parallel, we want to determine how the loss of cell cycle checkpoints contributes to the development of multiple myeloma, an incurable cancer of plasma cells, in order to facilitate rational design of therapeutic intervention. Cell cycle control of B cell activation and terminal differentiation. The mammalian cell cycle is regulated mainly at the G1 to S phase transition by the balance between positive and negative cell cycle regulators. Through gene targeting and analysis of the antibody response, we have identified p18INK4c, a G1 cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) inhibitor, to be specifically required for the generation of antibody-secreting plasma cells, and for the survival of plasma cell precursors. This was the first demonstration of cell cycle control of B cell immunity. We are now investigating the mechanisms by which the cell cycle is coupled to apoptosis and cellular differentiation, and regulates germinal center formation and memory B cell generation. Regulation of the cell cycle by antigen and cytokine signaling. The timing and magnitude of an antibody response is tightly modulated by antigen and cytokines, in particular BLyS, CD40 ligand, IL-4 and IL-6. We are now studying these signaling pathways that lead to cell cycle control of B cell activation and terminal differentiation. Cell cycle dysregulation in multiple myeloma. Loss of cell cycle control contributes to monoclonal expansion of malignant plasma cells and their accumulation in the bone marrow. In collaboration with clinical scientists in the Tri-Institutional Specialized Center of Research (SCOR) for Multiple Myeloma, we are identifying the cell cycle checkpoints that are lost in primary multiple myeloma cells, and the molecular interactions between myeloma cells and bone marrow stroma, and the self-renewing myeloma stem cells that are critical for disease progression.
PUBLICATIONS
Sort by
Newest
Oldest
Times Cited
Publication Type
Journal Name
Co-Author Network
Selected publications
Rational targeted therapies to overcome microenvironment-dependent expansion of mantle cell lymphoma.  Blood. 2016 In Process GET IT
Postibrutinib outcomes in patients with mantle cell lymphoma.  Blood.  2016 Academic Article GET IT
A novel effect of thalidomide and its analogs: suppression of cereblon ubiquitination enhances ubiquitin ligase function.  FASEB journal : official publication of the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.  2015 Academic Article GET IT
CDK4/6 Inhibitor PD 0332991 Sensitizes Acute Myeloid Leukemia to Cytarabine-Mediated Cytotoxicity.  Cancer research.  2015 Academic Article GET IT
To the editor: CCMCL1: A new model of aggressive mantle cell lymphoma.  Blood.  2015 Academic Article
Selective inhibition of protein arginine methyltransferase 5 blocks initiation and maintenance of B-cell transformation.  Blood.  2015 Academic Article GET IT
more ...
RESEARCH
Sort by
Newest
Oldest
Researcher Role
Co-investigator Network
Grants awarded
Chromatin''s Role in Repair of Radiation-Induced Damage  awarded by National Cancer Institute Key Personnel 2016 - 2017
Cell Cycle Reprogramming for Therapeutic Targeting of BTK in Lymphoma  awarded by National Cancer Institute Principal Investigator 2014 - 2019
Cell Cycle Sensitization to PI3K Therapy in Lymphoma  awarded by V Foundation Principal Investigator 2014 - 2017
Reprogramming MCL for BTK Inhibition by Targeting CDK4/CDK6  awarded by Lymphoma Research Foundation Principal Investigator 2013 - 2015
Defining Molecular Biomarkers for CDK4/6-Based Cancer Therapy by RNA Sequencing  awarded by National Cancer Institute Principal Investigator 2013 -
Multistage Vector-siRNA Targeting of Lymphoma and Multiple Myeloma  awarded by Weill Cornell Medical College/The Methodist Hospital Principal Investigator 2011 - 2013
more ...
BACKGROUND
Education and Training
Ph.D., Columbia University 1977
B.S., National Taiwan University (Taiwan) 1967
M.S., Cornell University 1967
CONTACT
Primary Email
sckiang@med.cornell.edu
©2017 VIVO Project | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO