###AuthorName=Bradley A. Levinson
###AuthorTitle=Professor
###Affiliation=Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Studies
###Position=Professor of Education, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Studies; Adjunct Professor of Anthropology and Latino Studies
##############################
Skip to Content
Skip to Search
Skip to Navigation
INDIANA UNIVERSITY BLOOMINGTON
School of Education
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
LinkedIn
Undergraduate
Graduate
Licensing & Professional Development
Online Learning @ IUconnectED
Faculty & Research
Alumni & Friends
Collaboration & Outreach
STUDENT PORTAL
ABOUT
DIVERSITY
NEWS
EVENTS
profile
Bradley A. Levinson
Professor of Education, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Studies; Adjunct Professor of Anthropology and Latino Studies
Faculty
W.W. Wright Education Building Room EDU4250
Phone : (812) 856-8359
Fax: (812) 856-8394
Send me an e-mail
Department:  Educational Leadership and Policy Studies
Affiliations:  Education Policy Studies, History, Philosophy & Comparative Education , Inquiry Methodology , Center for International Education, Development and Research
My website:  http://education.indiana.edu/brlevins/index.php
  About Me | Degrees | Publications | Presentations | Awards
  ABOUT ME
My interests include student culture and identity formation at the secondary level, in Mexico and the United States; civic and citizenship education for democracy, especially in Latin America; the sociocultural practice of policy formation and implementation; critical social theories in education; transnational migration and education; and ethnographic research methods. See the "background" and "research" tabs to the left for more details.
     RETURN TO TOP
DEGREES
Ph.D. Anthropology, June 1993, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC
M.A. Anthropology, June 1989, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC
B.A. Anthropology, June 1984, University of California, Santa Cruz, CA
RETURN TO TOP
PUBLICATIONS
Levinson, B., N. Gonzalez, and K. Anderson-Levitt (2015). Anthropological Approaches to the Study of Education: The United States and Beyond. In James D. Wright, Ed. International Encyclopedia of Social and Behavioral Sciences, 2nd Ed., Vol. 1. Pp. 728-733. Oxford: Elsevier.
Levinson, B. 2014. La antropologa de la educacin estadunidense: Temas y tensiones en el conocimiento de un campo social. (The U.S. anthropology of education: Topics and tensions in a social fields knowledge). In A. Daz de Rada, Ed. Etnografas de la educacin y conceptos de educacin. Madrid: Universidad Nacional de Educacin a Distancia. Pp. 63-70. E-book: http://e-spacio.uned.es/fez/eserv.php"pid=bibliuned:500383-IIICongresoEtnografia-1025dsID=Documento.pdf
Everitt, Judson and Bradley Levinson. Inhabited Institutions in New Destinations: Local Sense-Making and Institutional Work in Community Response to New Immigration
Levinson, B. Education reform sparks teacher protest in Mexico. Kappan Magazine 95(8): 48-51.
Convertino, C.M., B. Levinson, and N. Gonzalez. (2013). Culture, teaching, and learning. In James A. and Cherry A. McGee Banks, Eds. Multicultural education: Issues and perspectives. 8th edition. Pp. 25-41. New York: Wiley
Levinson, B., J.Blackwood, V. Cross. 2013. Recipients, agents, or partners": Contradictions of teacher participation in Mexican secondary education reform. Journal of Educational Change, 14(1): 1-27.
Levinson, B. (2012). Reduciendo brechas entre cultura juvenil y cultura docente escolar: El desafo institucional para crear una secundaria con sentido. In Emilio Tenti, Ed. La escolarizacin de los adolescentes. Pp. 79-112. Buenos Aires and Paris: IIPE-UNESCO. (Reducing the gap between youth culture and teachers school culture: The institutional challenge to create a meaningful secondary school.) (The Schooling of Adolescents)
Levinson, B. (2012). Commentary to Between faith and science: World culture theory and comparative education. CIES Perspectives (Newsletter of the Comparative and International Education Society), No. 159 (September), 4-6.
Convertino, C.M., B. Levinson, and N. Gonzalez. (2013). Culture, teaching, and learning. In James A. and Cherry A. McGee Banks, Eds. Multicultural education: Issues and perspectives. 8th edition. Pp. 25-41. New York: Wiley
Levinson, B. and L. Cerletti. (2012). Antropologa y educacin: Enfoques, aportes y trayectoria de investigacin. (Anthropology and education: Approach, contributions, and research trajectory.) Boletn de Antropologa y Educacin (Buenos Aires) 2(3), 47-51.
Levinson, B., J.Blackwood, V. Cross. 2012. Recipients, agents, or partners": Contradictions of teacher participation in Mexican secondary education reform. Journal of Educational Change, 14(3)
Levinson, B. (2011). Toward an anthropology of (democratic) citizenship education. In A Blackwell Companion to the Anthropology of Education. B. Levinson and M. Pollock, eds. Pp. 279-298. Malden, MA: Wiley Blackwell.
Levinson, B. Pollock, M. (Eds.) (2011). A Blackwell Companion to the Anthropology of Education. Malden, MA: Wiley-Blackwell.
Levinson, B., with P.J. Gross, J. Heimer Dadds, C. Hanks, K. Kumasi, D. Metro-Roland, and J. Link. (2011). Beyond Critique: Exploring Critical Social Theories and Education. Boulder, CO: Paradigm Publishers.
Inauguration and welcoming remarks. Proceedings of the First Symposium on Teaching Indigenous Languages of Latin America. S. Coronel-Molina and J. McDowell, Eds. Pp. xvi-xviii. Indiana University, at http://www.indiana.edu/~clacs/academics/STILLA%202008%20Proceedings-MLCP-CLACS-ATLILLA.pdf
Levinson, B.A.U., M. Sutton, and T. Winstead. (2009) Education Policy as a Practice of Power: Theoretical Tools, Ethnographic Methods, Democratic Options. Educational Policy 23(6): 767-795.
Levinson, B. (2010). The State and the citizen in Mexican civic education: An evolving story. In Globalization, the Nation-State, and the Citizen: Dilemmas and Directions for Civic and Citizenship Education. Ed. by A. Reid, J. Gill, and A. Sears. Pp. 175-190. London: Routledge
Levinson, B. and C. Casas (2009). From curriculum to practice: Removing structural and cultural obstacles to effective secondary education reform in the Americas. Organization of American States Working Papers for the Sixth Meeting of Ministers of Education.
Stevick, E. Doyle and Bradley A.U. Levinson (Eds.) (2008). Advancing Democracy through Education": U.S. Influence Abroad and Domestic Practice. Charlotte, NC: Information Age Publishing.
Levinson, B. Gonzlez, N. (2008). Anthropology of education in a global age. Translated into French for A.V. Zanten (Ed.), Dictionnaire de Pedagogie (pp. 12-16). Paris: Presses Universitaires de Francais.
Levinson, B. and M.E. Luna (Forthcoming). Stealth diversity and the indigenous question: The challenges of citizenship in Mexican civic education. In James Banks, Ed. Global Migration, Structural Inclusion, and Citizenship Education. Washington, D.C.: AERA Publications.
Everitt, J. and B. Levinson. (In press). Inhabited institutions in new destinations: Local sense-making and institutional work in community response to new immigration. Journal of Contemporary Ethnography. 44(5): Published online Sep. 30, 2014 at: http://jce.sagepub.com/content/early/2014/09/29/0891241614550757
RETURN TO TOP
PRESENTATIONS
Levinson, B. (2015, April 17). Discussant for session on Policyscapes of education reform: Vertical case studies of educational policy appropriation across national settings. Annual Meeting of the American Educational Research Association, Chicago, IL
Presented paper in symposium on Global Migration, Structural Inclusion, and Citizenship Education, a Spencer Foundation funded event hosted by James Banks
Levinson, B. (2015, November 20). Discussant for session, The National as Global, the Global as National: Citizenship Education in the Context of Migration and Globalization. Annual meetings of the American Anthropological Association, Denver, CO.
Levinson, B. (2015, November 21). Panelist for Roundtable, A Conversation with CAEs Past Presidents to Advance the Field of Anthropology of Education: Theoretical and Methodological Challenges that Neoliberalism Poses to the Field. Annual meetings of the American Anthropological Association, Denver, CO.
Levinson, B. (2015, November 18). Organized and chaired special session of the Council on Anthropology and Education, Going Public: Communicating our Research beyond the Academy. Annual Meetings of the American Anthropological Association, Denver, CO.
Democratic citizenship, youth identity, and the disappointments of secondary education reform in Mexico. Paper delivered at Symposium on Education for Mexico in the 21st Century. Center for Mexican Studies and Teachers College, Columbia University.
Organized and chaired invited session of the Council on Anthropology of Education and the Executive Program Committee of the American Anthropological Association: But is it science": Producing justice-oriented ethnography of education for varied publics. Annual meetings of the American Anthropological Association. December 5, Washington, D.C.
La antropologa de la educacin norteamericana: Temas y tensiones en el conocimiento de un campo social (The North American anthropology of education: Tensions and themes in the knowledge of a social field). Paper presented at conference in Madrid, Spain, July 5.
Organized and chaired double-session for the annual meetings of the American Anthropological Association, The Anthropology of policy in formal education: Imagining, enforcing, and contesting new publics.
The rhetorics of participation in Mexican secondary education reform: Words, actions, things. Paper for annual meetings of the American Anthropological Association, San Francisco, CA.
Citizenship in the vernacular: An anthropology of education in/for democracy. Invited seminar for Research Consortium in Sociology. Aarhus University, Aarhus, Denmark.
The anthropology of education as a field of knowledge production: Current perspectives, enduring debates. Invited lecture for Department of Anthropology, Vytatus Magnus University, Kaunas, Lithuania.
Final discussant and moderator for conference on Education, Citizenship, and Democratic Personhood. Organized by Department of Social Anthropology, Cambridge University and Department of Education, Aarhus University.
Engaging the world through educational research: Critical social theory and the challenge of post-modernism. Invited seminar at the Department of Psychology and Educational Studies, Roskilde University, Denmark.
Ambiguous democracy, contradictory citizenship: A policy ethnography of Mexican secondary education reform. Lecture delivered at the Department of Education, Aarhus University, Copenhagen, Denmark.
Levinson, B. with C. Beresniova and F. Ramos. (2011, May 1). Critical social theory and comparative educations imagined interlocutors. Paper delivered at the annual meetings of the Comparative and International Education Society, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
Levinson, B. and M. Pollock. (2011, November 17). Organized special session for the annual meetings of the American Anthropological Association, Traces and legacies of education in the discipline: A roundtable conversation. Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
Levinson, B. (2011, May 2). The Inter-American Journal of Education for Democracy: Concepts and trends. Paper delivered in session, Citizenship across the Americas, Annual Meetings of the Comparative and International Education Society. Montreal.
Levinson, B. (2011, November 17). Discussant for session, Negotiating citizenship education amid conflict, Annual meetings of the American Anthropological Association. Montreal.
Levinson, B. (2011, September 16). La antropologa de la educacin como campo de conocimiento: Perspectivas y tensiones.(The anthropology of education as a field of knowledge: Perspectives and tensions). Talk delivered for the program in Anthropology of Education, Facultad de Filosofa y Letras, Universidad de Buenos Aires.
Levinson, B. (2011, September 14). Reduciendo brechas entre cultura juvenil y cultura docente escolar: Un desafo institucional.Invited paper delivered at the Simposio Internacional, La Escolarizacin de los Adolescentes, organized by International Institute for Educational Planning of UNESCO, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Levinson, B. (2011, June 20). La antropologa de la educacin como campo de conocimiento. Invited talk at the Universidad Autnoma Metropolitana (UAM)-Xochimilco, Mexico City.
Levinson, B. (2011, April 5). Invited panelist for session on Educacin y valores para la vida, part of the Encuentro Nacional de Educacin en Valores para la Convivencia del Siglo XXI, (National Forum on Education for Values of Coexistence), 90th anniversary celebrations of the National Ministry of Education of Mexico (SEP), National Auditorium, Mexico City.
Levinson, B. (2010, October 9). Education policy, the state, and the imagination of democratic citizenship in Latin America. Paper delivered at the 2010 Congress of the Latin American Studies Association. Toronto, Canada
Levinson, B. (2010, March 4). Organized, chaired, and served as discussant for panel, Anthropology in/and comparative education: Perspectives on a discipline-field relationship. 54th Annual Conference of the Comparative and International Education Society. Chicago, IL.
RETURN TO TOP
AWARDS
Visiting Professor, Department of Education, Aarhus University (formerly Danish Pedagogical University); February 1-June 1
RETURN TO TOP
Add or update your profile (requires an Indiana University Network Id and password)
Fulfilling the Promise
Intranet | Privacy Notice
Copyright © 2017 The Trustees of Indiana University, Copyright Complaints