###AuthorName=Philip Cook
###AuthorTitle=Dr
###Affiliation=School of Social and Political Science
###Position=Lecturer
##############################
Skip to main content
School of Social and Political Science
School Navigation
The University of Edinburgh
POLITICS AND INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (PIR)
Follow us on facebook
Connect with us on Linked In
View our Twitter stream
Follow us on Academia.edu
Log in
POLITICS AND INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (PIR):
PEOPLE
Toggle section navigation
Philip Cook
Dr Philip Cook
Lecturer in Political Theory; Editor-in-Chief, Res Publica
3.29 Chrystal Macmillan Building
15a George Square
Edinburgh
UK
EH8 9LD
+44(0)131 651 1577
Philip.Cook@ed.ac.uk
Political Theory, Political Philosophy, Social Justice, Education and Schools, Children and Childhood, Family Relationships, Children and Democracy, Contractualism
Guidance and Feedback Hours
Tuesdays 4pm-5.30pm during teaching weeks (for other availability please email)
Background
I joined the University of Edinburgh in June 2013. Prior to my appointment at Edinburgh, I was a Lecturer in the Department of Politics and International Relations, University of Leicester (2009-13), and LSE Fellow in Political Theory (2006-9).
I was a Programme Visitor at the Research School for Social Sciences at Australian National University (2008), and Visiting Scholar, Department of Philosophy at the University of Victoria in Canada (2013). 
Qualifications
BSc (Econ) Government and International History (LSE)
MSc Political Theory (LSE)
PhD (LSE) 
Senior Fellow UK Higher Education Academy
Research Interests 
My recent research has focused on the moral and political status of children. I am particularly interested in understanding children's claims of justice as democratic equals. I am currently working on issues around justice in schools and education; the place of work in children's lives; and children's entitlements to political participation (including voting). 
Previous work on justice in education and schooling was supported by an ESRC Small Grant ‘Schools, Children, and Social Justice’. 
I also have research interests in contractualism in moral and political philosophy. I am especially interested in exploring contractualist responses to problems of exclusion: how may children, people with various kinds of disabilities, and the elderly be included in the scope of contractualist justification?
I am keen to pursue political philosophy in an interdisciplinary context. I am a founding member of the SSPS Education and Society Research Group, and an Associate Director SKAPE (Centre for Science, Knowledge, and Policy). 
I contribute to a variety of public and policy engagement activities. I have organised a range of events as part of the Just World Institute's 'Ethics Forum' that brought together scholars, politicians and activists to discuss topics of current public concern; I recently co-organised a conference on 'Philanthropy and Social Justice' with academics and practitioners; and am a member of the Academy of Government's 'Reference Group on Inequalities' which considers responses to social inequality in Scotland with leaders from business, campaign groups, central and local government, and the voluntary sector.
I am Editor-in-Chief of Res Publica - A Journal of Moral, Legal and Social Philosophy (together with Dr. Sune Laegaard). 
Res Publica is published on behalf of the Association for Social and Political Philosophy.
Teaching
I currently convene the first-year undergraduate core-course 'Political Thinkers' which introduces students to figures such as St. Augustine, Hobbes, Locke, Rousseau, Marx, Mill, Arendt, Gandhi, and Rawls. I also contribute to the course 'Education and Policy' convened by colleagues in Social Policy.
I have strong interests in digital education, especially online distance learning and blended learning. While at University of Leicester I was Director of Distance Learning in Politics and International Relations, and helped develop a range of successful  online distance learning post-graduate programmes. Since joining the University of Edinburgh, I have served as Digital Education Officer for the School of Social and Political Science, helping to develop online distance learning courses and programmes across the School further. I am currently studying part-time on the MSc in Digital Education based at the Moray House of Education, University of Edinburgh, to help build my expertise in this area further.
I engage actively in pedagogical research. I was recently awarded a Principal's Teaching Award Small Grant to conduct research into the effect on student motivation and attainment of a blended-learning study skills programme I introduced.
I also serve as the Learning and Teaching Development Officer in Politics and International Relations, helping to deliver workshops and develop learning and teaching resources for colleagues involved with teaching, both in areas of general pedagogy (such as assessment literacy) and e-learning (such as flipped classroom).
I was awarded a University Teaching Fellowship while at University of Leicester.
In August 2016 I was awarded a Senior Fellowship of the UK Higher Education Academy.
Publications
'Liberalism, Contractarianism, and the Problem of Exclusion' in The Cambridge Companion to Liberalism, Steven Wall, ed. (Cambridge University Press, 2015), pp. 87-111
'Citizenship at the Margins', Critical Review of International Social and Political Philosophy, 16 (3) 2013 (special issue co-edited with Jonathan Seglow) 
'Against a Minimum Voting Age' Critical Review of Social and Political Philosophy, 16 (3), 2013, pp. 439-458
'Two Types of Self-Censorship: Public and Private' (co-authored with Conrad Heilmann), Political Studies, 61 (1), 2013, pp. 178-196.
'On the Duties of Shared Parenting' Ethics and Social Welfare, 6 (2), 2012, pp. 168-181.
'Fairness, Consensus, and the Justification of the Ideal Liberal Constitution’ Canadian Journal of Law and Jurisprudence, 22 (1), 2009, pp. 165-186.
‘An Augmented Buck-Passing Account of Reasons and Value: Scanlon and Crisp on What Stops the Buck’ Utilitas, 20 (4),  2008, pp. 490-507. 
My Edinburgh Research Explorer listing can be accessed here (including links to open-access versions of my papers):
http://www.research.ed.ac.uk/portal/en/persons/philip-cook(f59ec04c-ee97-4573-95c2-36e2c47c7089)/publications.html
We have a thriving PhD research community in Political Theory at Edinburgh. Please see http://politicaltheory.sps.ed.ac.uk/ for further information.
Topics interested in supervising
I am happy to supervise students working in contemporary political theory, particularly on topics of social justice, childhood, schooling/education, family relations, free speech/censorship, democracy, and contractualism.
If you are interested in being supervised by Philip Cook, please see the links below for more information:
PhD in Politics; MSc (R) Political Theory
Jamie Allinson
Malcolm Anderson
Mark Aspinwall
Hayley Bennett
Shaun Bevan
Andrea Birdsall
Elizabeth Bomberg
Christina Boswell
Alan Convery
Philip Cook
Laura Cram
Elizabeth Cripps
Chad Damro
Sara Rich Dorman
Claire Duncanson
Oliver Escobar
Carmen Gebhard
Marc Geddes
Iain Hardie
Tim Hayward
Ailsa Henderson
Andrew Hom
Jana Hönke
Kristen Hopewell
Charlie Jeffery
Juliet Kaarbo
Russell Keat
Meryl Kenny
Harshan Kumarasingham
Fiona Mackay
Luke March
Nicola McEwen
Mihaela Mihai
James Mitchell
Andrew Neal
Kieran Oberman
Pontus Odmalm
Ugur Ozdemir
Nicola Perugini
John Peterson
Charles Raab
Charlotte Rommerskirchen
JP Singh
Ewan Stein
Wilfried Swenden
Mathias Thaler
Andrew Thompson
Oliver Turner
Julia Calvert
Terms & Conditions
Privacy and Cookies
Accessibility Statement
Freedom of Information Publication Scheme
Unless explicitly stated otherwise, all material is copyright The University of Edinburgh 2013-2015.