###AuthorName=Nicola Wright
###AuthorTitle=PhD
###Affiliation=Faculty of Medicine & Health Sciences
###Position=Assistant Professor
##############################
Cookies help us to give you the best experience on our website. You can change your cookie settings if you wish. Otherwise we'll assume you're OK to continue.OKSee our policy
UK
China
Malaysia
Study
Research
Business
Global
About
A-Z
   You are here:
  University of NottinghamHealth SciencesPeople
School of Health Sciences
       Home
About Us
Undergraduate Study
Continuing Professional Development
Postgraduate Study
Research
International study
Alumni
Partners
Practice
People
Open Days
News
Events
Contact Us
  Nicola Wright
Assistant Professor in Mental Health, Faculty of Medicine & Health Sciences
Download to vCard
Back to the Staff Directory
Personal Details
Publications
Contact
Room 414
Royal Derby Hospital
Uttoxeter Road
Derby
DE22 3DT
UK
01332 724604
nicola.wright@nottingham.ac.uk
Biography
I am an Assistant Professor in Mental Health in the School of Health Sciences and the Institute of Mental Health. I hold a PhD in Nursing Studies, MA in Research Methods and Bachelor of Nursing (Hons) all from the University of Nottingham. Prior to commencing my current role in July 2013, I spent four years working as a Research Fellow at the Collaboration for Leadership in Applied Health Research and Care Nottinghamshire, Derbyshire and Lincolnshire (CLAHRC NDL). From 2008-2009 I was employed as a Research Associate in the School of Psychology at the University of Birmingham. I am a registered Mental Health Nurse and have worked clinically in acute inpatient and assertive outreach services.
Expertise Summary
Teaching Summary
Module Lead: B746SG Professional Development, Leadership and Innovation for Nursing Practice (GEN).
BSc/MNurSci Group Facilitator
BSc Dissertation Supervisor
MNursSci Dissertation Supervisor
Masters of Science in Nursing (GEN) Dissertation Supervisor
Masters in Health and Social Care Dissertation Supervisor
Research Summary
Research Interests:
Mental health of young people (joint lead Youth Mental Health Managed Innovation Network with Dr Maria Michail).
Care transitions in mental health.
Community mental health care provision.
Inpatient care.
Promotion and maintenance of service user engagement with mental health services.
Suicide and self harm.
Service improvement and evaluation - particularly the use of qualitative methods.
Knowledge translation and evidence based practice.
My current and recently completed research projects include the following projects:
An evaluation of Connecting with People Suicide Awareness Training with General Practitioners in Northamptonshire. (WRIGHT and Michail): Funding: £16, 718 East Midlands Patient Safety Collaborative.
Talk About Self Harm: A Participatory Approach to improving self-help strategies for young people with mental health needs presenting to primary care. (in collaboration with Nottingham Trent University: Bailey, WRIGHT and Kemp) Funding: £34,139 Nottingham City Clinical Commissioning Group.
Safe and Appropriate Mental Health Discharge. (Rowley, Waring, WRIGHT and Chopra) Funding: £5,000 SPARK Nottingham University Business School.
Audiologists awareness and experiences of adult patients with Dementia. In conjunction with The Ear Foundation. (Archbold, Mulla and WRIGHT) Funding: £9,500 Cochlear International.
Mental Health Needs Assessment in Three Buckinghamshire Prisons. (Kane, Jordan and WRIGHT) Funding: £30,000 NHS Buckinghamshire.
An evaluation of the CLAHRC-NDL Research into Practice Initiatives. (WRIGHT). Funding: NIHR CLAHRC-NDL Grant.
Current PhD Supervision:
Josephine Bardi (School of Health Sciences, University of Nottingham): To what extent do non-statutory community based mental health services meet the social and mental well-being of individuals with mental illness? A mixed method analysis of the Dragon Café. Funding: ESRC four year intergrated studentship.
Matthew Horrocks: (School of Health Sciences, University of Nottingham): The development and evaluation of an electronic suicide decision making tool for use in primary care. Funding: CLAHRC EM and the East Midlands Patient Safety Collaborative.
Shireen Patel (School of Medicine, Principle Supervisor: Prof. Richard Morriss): What are the Factors that facilitate and hinder engagement of service users into research studies and treatment interventions? Funded by CLAHRC EM.
Recent Publications
FELTON A, WRIGHT N and STACEY G, 2017. Therapeutic risk taking: A justifiable choice. British Journal of Psychiatric Advances. 23(2), 81-88
WRIGHT, N, ROWLEY, E, CHOPRA, A, GREGORIOU, K and WARING, J, 2016. From Admission to Discharge in Mental Health Services: A Qualitative Analysis of Service User Involvement. Health Expectations. 19(2), 367–376
WRIGHT N, ZAKARIN M and BLAKE H, 2016. Nurses' views on workplace wellbeing programmes British Journal of Nursing. 25(21), 1208-121
WRIGHT, N., MOLDAVSKY, M., SCHNEIDER, J., CHAKRABARTI, I., COATES, J., DALEY, D., KOCHHAR, P., MILLS, J., SOROUR, W. and SAYAL, K., 2015. Practitioner Review: Pathways to care for ADHD - A systematic review of barriers and facilitators. Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry. 56(5), 598-617
View all publications
School of Health Sciences
B Floor, South Block Link
Queen's Medical Centre
Nottingham, NG7 2HA
telephone: +44 (0)115 823 0850
email: shs-enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
Legal information
Copyright
Terms and conditions
Privacy
Posting rules
Accessibility
Freedom of information
Charity gateway
Cookie policy
Get social
Connect with the University of Nottingham through social media and our blogs.
        Campus maps | More contact information | Jobs
 