###AuthorName=Adrian Fenton
###AuthorTitle=PhD
###Affiliation=School of Earth & Environment
###Position=Researcher
##############################
Faculty of Environment
Leeds.ac.uk Portal Contact Us
School of Earth and Environment
HOME ADMISSIONS & STUDY RESEARCH BUSINESS & CONSULTANCY PEOPLE INTRANET
You are here: Earth and Environment > People > Person detail
Adrian Fenton
Postgraduate Student
Telephone number: +44(0) 113 34 37966
Email address: eeaff@leeds.ac.uk
Room: 9.123n
Affiliation: Sustainability Research Institute
Biography
Adrian is a PhD Researcher at the Sustainability Research Institute (SRI) of the School of Earth & Environment. His research examines how rural finance institutions influence the livelihoods of households in Bangladesh. In particular, his research focuses on the role played by microfinance institutions in facilitating and inhibiting climate change adaptation.
Adrian is also a Visiting Researcher at the International Centre for Climate Change and Development (ICCCAD) and an Affliate Researcher of the Centre for Climate Change Economics and Policy (CCCEP).
In addition to his academic research, Adrian has private consultancy experience working on assignments for the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), and the International Institute for Environment and Development (IIED), as well as non-governmental organisations such as Oxfam and CARE international.
Qualifications
MSc. International Development: Research Training (University of Manchester - Institute for Development Policy and Management)
MSc. Development Planning: Environment and Sustainable Development (University College London - Development Planning Unit)
BA. Business Economics. (University of Leicester)
Research Interests
Microfinance
Climate change adaptation
Livelihoods
Green economy
Climate finance
United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC)
Project details
Project title
Microfinance and climate change adaptation: Insights from Southwest Bangladesh
Supervisors
Professor Jouni Paavola and Dr Anne Tallontire
Start date
1st October 2011
Publications
Research Articles
Fenton, A., Paavola, J., & Tallontire, A. 2017. Autonomous adaptation to riverine flooding in Satkhira District, Bangladesh: implications for adaptation planning. Regional Environmental Change. 1-10.
Fenton, A., Paavola, J., & Tallontire, A. 2017. Vulnerability of microfinance institutions to climate risk in the Satkhira District, Southwest Bangladesh. Centre for Climate Change Economics and Policy. Working Paper 302.
Fenton, A., Paavola, J., & Tallontire, A. 2017. The Role of Microfinance in Household Livelihood Adaptation in Satkhira District, Southwest Bangladesh. World Development, 92, 192-202.
Fenton, A., Paavola, J., & Tallontire, A. 2016. Autonomous adaptation to riverine flooding in Satkhira District, Bangladesh: insights for transformation. Centre for Climate Change Economics and Policy. Working Paper 283.
Fenton, A., Paavola, J., Tallontire, A. 2015. Microfinance and climate change adaptation: an overview of the current literature. Enterprise Development and Microfinance. Article in Press.
Willams, C., Fenton, A., Huq, S. 2015. Knowledge and adaptive capacity. Nature Climate Change, 5, 82-83.
Fenton, A., Gallagher, D., Wright, H., Huq, S., Nyandiga, C. 2014. Up-scaling finance for community-based adaptation. Climate and Development, 6, 388-397.
Fenton, A., Wright, H., Afionis, S., Paavola, J., Huq, S. 2014. Debt relief and financing climate change action. Nature Climate Change, 4, 650-653.
Huq, H., Roberts, E., Fenton, A. October 2013. Loss and damage. Nature Climate Change, 3, pp.947-949.
Afionis, A., Fenton, A., and Paavola, J. December 2012. EU climate leadership under test. Nature Climate Change, 2, pp.837–838.
Conferences Proceedings and Reports
UNEP. 2016. Loss and Damage: The role of Ecosystem Services. United Nations Environment Programme, Nairobi, Kenya.
Fenton, A., Reid, H., Wright, W., Huq, S. 2015. Ten principles to help assess funding for local climate adaptation. Policy Brief. International Institute for Environment and Development.
Reid, H., Fenton, A., Kirkby, P., Parry, E., Roberts, E., Smith, B., Stott, C., Stubbings, A., Totton, J., Wilson, K., Wright, H. 2014. Community Based Adaptation: Financing Local Adaptation. Conference Proceedings. Bangladesh Centre for Advanced Studies, and International Institute for Environment and Development, and Clean Energy Nepal.
Reid, H., Coirolo, C., Christensen, K., Fenton, A., Roberts, E., Stott, C., Stubbings, A., Wright, H. 2013. Community Based Adaptation: Mainstreaming CBA into national and local planning. Conference Proceedings. Bangladesh Centre for Advanced Studies, and International Institute for Environment and Development.
Media Articles
Financing for development under a changing climate. Adrian Fenton and Helena Wright. International Centre for Trade and Sustainable Development. 17 September 2015.
Will new development banks help or hinder on climate change?. Adrian Fenton. International Institute for Environment and Development's (IIED). 6 July 2015.
Cancel developing countries' debt in exchange for climate change action. Helena Wright and Adrian Fenton. The Guardian. 26 September 2014.
Community-based adaptation and microfinance: a win-win partnership? Adrian Fenton. International Institute for Environment and Development's (IIED). 21 March 2011.
Misleading metrics of microfinance. Adrian Fenton. International Institute for Environment and Development's (IIED). 21 December 2010.
Publications
Fenton AF; Paavola J; Tallontire A (2015) Microfinance and climate change adaptation: an overview of the current literature, Enterprise Development and Microfinance: an international journal, 26, pp.262-273. doi: 10.3362/1755-1986.2015.023
Fenton AF; Williams C; Huq S (2015) Knowledge and adaptive capacity, Nature Climate Change, . doi: 10.1038/nclimate2476
Search site
Faculty Support Staff & Key Academic Leads
People
Alumni
Contact Us
News
Faculties and schools Staff A-Z Library LUU University jobs Find an expert News The Portal
Back to the top | Terms and conditions | Accessibility | Privacy | Freedom of Information
© 2016 University of Leeds, Leeds, LS2 9JT.
 