###AuthorName=Gershon N. Mandelker
###AuthorTitle=Professor
###Affiliation=School of Business and College of Business Administration
###Position=Professor Emeritus
##############################
Skip to main content
Go
Pitt Business Home
Pitt Home
Find People
Faculty & Research
Alumni & Friends
Recruiters & Companies
About Katz
Centers
Contact Us
MBA
Executive
MBA
Specialized
Masters
PhD
Executive
Education
APPLY
Faculty and Research
Faculty List (A-Z)
Accounting
Business Analytics and Operations
Finance
Information Systems and Technology Management
Marketing and Business Economics
Organizations and Entrepreneurship
Research News
Faculty Openings
Faculty Blog
Gershon N. Mandelker
Katz Alumni Chair Professor Emeritus of Finance and Business Administration
  Finance
Office: 
350 Mervis Hall
Phone: 
412-977-5199
E-mail: 
mandelke@katz.pitt.edu

Degrees
PhD, University of Chicago
MBA, University of Chicago
BA, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem (Majors: Economics and Statistics)
Profile
My research goal is to advance and test theories which explain economic behavior of individuals, firms, and capital markets. This includes issues in corporate financial policy; corporate governance; mergers and acquisitions; management compensation; market microstructure; the behavior of stock prices and bond prices in an efficient market; the relation between accounting measures of income and risk and their financial measures; and the impact of inflation on rates of return of financial assets.
Courses Recently Taught
Corporate Finance
Creating Value Through Restructuring
The Efficiency of Capital Markets
Research Methodology in Finance
Some Publications
"Investment Banking: An Economic Analysis of optimal Underwriting Contracts,"(with A. Raviv ), The Journal of Finance, XXXI.
Reprinted in: Financial Intermediaries, Mervin K. Lewis, Critical Writings in Economics, vol. 43. Aldershot, U.K.: Elgar, 1995.
  "Risk and Return: The Case of Merging Firms," Journal of Financial Economics, December, 1974.
Reprinted in: Modern Developments in Corporate Finance: A Book of Readings, edited by S. C. Myers, (The Dryden Press; Holt, Rinehart and Winston; Hinsdale, Illinois, 1977);
Reprinted in Capital Market Equilibrium Efficiency: Implications for Accounting, Financial and Portfolio Decision-Making, edited by J. L. Bicksler, (Lexington Books, D.C. Heath and Company, 1977);
Reprinted in Economics of Corporation Law and Securities Regulation, R.A. Posner and K.E. Scott, Eds. (Little, Brown and Company, 1980), pp. 197-205;
and in Fiduciary Problems in Acquisitions and Takeovers, L. Herzel and D. E. Colling, Eds. (Practicing Law Institute, NY, 1981), pp. 67-74.
"The Impact of Financial and Operating Leverages on the Systematic Risk of Common Stocks," (with S.G. Rhee), Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, XIX, March 1984, 45-57.
"Managerial Incentives and Corporate Investment and Financing Decisions" (with A. Agrawal) The Journal of Finance, XLII, September 1987, 823-838
"Large Shareholders and the Monitoring of Managers: The Case of Antitakeover Charter Amendments," (with A. Agrawal) Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, XXV, June 1990, 143-162.
"Executive Compensation and Corporate Performance in Electric and Gas Utilities," (with A. Agrawal and A. Makhija), Financial Management, XXI, Winter 1991, 113-124.
"The Post Acquisition Performance of Acquiring Firms in Mergers: A Re-examination of an Anomaly," (with A. Agrawal and J. Jaffe), The Journal of Finance, XLVII, September 1992, 1605-1622.
Reprinted in: Takeovers: a Book of Readings, Volume II, edited by, A. Cosh and A. Hughes, (The International Library of Management; Dartmouth Publishing Company Limited, Ashgate Publishing Limited, 1998)
"The Efficient Markets Hypothesis - An Overview," (with J. Clarke and T. Jandik), in Leading Financial Experts: Investment Strategies from Industry Leaders, R. C. Arrfa, ed. ( John Wiley & Sons, Inc. New York, 2001)
"Bank Monitoring, Firm Performance, and Top Management Turnover in Japan," (C. Anderson, W. Campbell, and J. Narayanan) Advances in Financial Economics, 2003.
Citations
Mandelker's papers have been cited 2846 times, according to Google Scholar, and 801 times, according to The Web of Science, in scholarly journals as of May 27, 2010.
Personal Interests
Reading, Hiking, Chess.
Rising Stars on the Accounting Faculty
The Accounting Faculty at the Joseph M. Katz Graduate School of Business and College of Business Administration are a unique mix of both experimental and archival scholars. Over the last few years, Katz has recruited some of the finest accounting scholars who are making an impact in the classroom and in research.
Jeff Inman Elected Editor in Chief of Journal of Consumer Research
J. Jeffrey Inman was elected Editor in Chief of the Journal of Consumer Research, the most prestigious journal focused on scholarly research that describes and explains consumer behavior. 
John Prescott Receives Provost’s Mentoring Award
Faculty member John E. Prescott was selected for the University of Pittsburgh 2017 Provost's Award for Excellence in Mentoring. The honor recognizes him for his work with Katz doctoral students. During the past 30 years, he has served on about 70 dissertation committees and his former students have become professors at elite business schools all over the world.
Pittsburgh CFA Society Recognizes Jay Sukits for His Work with Financial Literacy
Jay Sukits, Clinical Assistant Professor of Business Administration, is the inaugural recipient of the CFA Society Pittsburgh’s Excellence in Financial Literacy Education Award. The award recognizes educators who best demonstrate a commitment to financial literacy education in the spirit and tenants of the CFA designation.



FOLLOW KATZ
QUICK LINKS
APPLY
Full-time MBA
Professional MBA
Executive MBA
Specialized
Masters
PhD Program
Joint and Dual Degree
Faculty
Alumni
Undergraduate
Center for Branding
Center for Executive Education
Center for Healthcare Management
Center for Supply Chain Management
David Berg Center for Ethics and Leadership
International Business Center
Map
Virtual Tour
EXPLORE
News
Leadership
Virtual Tours
Rankings
Faculty Research
Contact Us
University of Pittsburgh
Joseph M. Katz Graduate School of Business and College of Business Administration
Mervis Hall, Pittsburgh, PA 15260
412-648-1531
8:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.
© 2017 | webeditor@katz.pitt.edu
Privacy Policy
The University of Pittsburgh is an equal opportunity, affirmative action institution.