###AuthorName=Robert Marx
###AuthorTitle=Professor
###Affiliation=Medical College
###Position=
##############################
VIVO
Weill Cornell Medical College
Index
Log in
Home
People
Organizations
Research
Support
Robert Marx   Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery
Publications
Background
Contact
Other
Phone
+1 212 606 1645
Professor of Healthcare Policy and Research, Healthcare Policy and Research , Weill Cornell Medical College 2014 - 2017
Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery, Orthopaedic Surgery , Weill Cornell Medical College 2009 - 2017
Professor of Public Health, Public Health , Weill Cornell Medical College 2009 - 2013
Associate Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery, Orthopaedic Surgery , Weill Cornell Medical College 2005 - 2009
Associate Professor of Public Health, Public Health , Weill Cornell Medical College 2005 - 2009
Assistant Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery, Orthopaedic Surgery , Weill Cornell Medical College 2000 - 2005
Assistant Professor of Public Health, Public Health , Weill Cornell Medical College 2000 - 2005
Senior Clinical Associate in Orthopaedic Surgery, Orthopaedic Surgery , Weill Cornell Medical College 1998 - 2000
Surgical Expertise
Dr. Marx is an orthopedic surgeon at Hospital for Special Surgery and Professor of Orthopedic Surgery at Weill Cornell Medical College. In addition to his research, Dr. Marx has treated thousands of knee and shoulder injuries. He performs arthroscopic and open procedures for knee and shoulder problems as well as knee and shoulder joint replacement surgery. Dr. Marx is also experienced in complex and revision surgical cases.

Read more about Dr. Robert Marx on his website: www.drrmarx.com or see below for more regarding his areas of specialty.

Dr. Marx has published more than 100 peer-reviewed articles in leading orthopedic and research journals. He has published a textbook on bone tumors and has also written book chapters on knee surgery and shoulder replacement surgery. Dr. Marx received the 2003 O'Donoghue Sports Injury Research Award presented by the American Orthopedic Society for Sports Medicine for a study of determinants of knee reinjury following anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) tear. Currently he serves as Deputy Editor for Evidence Based Orthopedics for the journal Clinical Orthopaedics and Related Research

Areas of Specialty

ACL and Multi-ligament Knee Reconstruction: Using arthroscopic technique, Dr. Marx reconstructs the anterior cruciate ligament of the knee (ACL). These tears are often caused by sports injuries. Dr. Marx uses all techniques and graft sources, including patellar tendon, hamstrings and transplant. He also performs revision surgery for failed ACL reconstruction. In some cases, more than one ligament in the knee requires reconstructive surgery (i.e.: ACL, PCL, MCL, and / or LCL / Posterolateral Corner), and Dr. Marx is well known for his expertise in this area having published and lectured extensively on this topic.

Shoulder Surgery for Dislocation or Trauma: This includes surgery to stabilize shoulders following dislocation or fractures after trauma. Dr. Marx specializes in revision surgery for failed dislocation repairs.

Rotator Cuff Repair: Dr. Marx performs rotator cuff repair surgery arthroscopically for small and large tears to eliminate pain and improve strength in injured shoulders. The arthroscopic approach involved four small incisions each measuring less than a centimeter.

Arthroscopy and Complex Knee Surgery: Dr. Marx performs knee arthroscopy with meniscus surgery and meniscus transplantation. Dr. Marx repairs or removes torn sections of the meniscus arthroscopically. He also performs osteotomy (leg realignment), transplants and complex knee-revision surgery.

Shoulder and Knee Replacement : These procedures are performed for arthritic joints when pain and limitation of movement prevent normal function. Joint replacement surgery can allow patients who are limited by their arthritis to return to a more active and normal lifestyle.
PUBLICATIONS
Sort by
Newest
Oldest
Times Cited
Publication Type
Journal Name
Co-Author Network
Selected publications
Perineural dexamethasone with subsartorial saphenous nerve blocks in ACL reconstruction.  Knee surgery, sports traumatology, arthroscopy : official journal of the ESSKA. 2017 In Process GET IT
Times cited: 3
Do Surgeon Expectations Predict Clinically Important Improvements in WOMAC Scores After THA and TKA?.  Clinical orthopaedics and related research. 2017 In Process GET IT
Baseline cartilage quality is associated with voxel-based T1ρ and T2 following ACL reconstruction: A multicenter pilot study.  Journal of orthopaedic research : official publication of the Orthopaedic Research Society. 2017 In Process GET IT
Times cited: 2
Composite metric R2  - R1ρ (1/T2  - 1/T1ρ ) as a potential MR imaging biomarker associated with changes in pain after ACL reconstruction: A six-month follow-up.  Journal of orthopaedic research : official publication of the Orthopaedic Research Society. 2017 In Process GET IT
Comparison of Revision Rates of Non-modular Constrained Versus Posterior Stabilized Total Knee Arthroplasty: a Propensity Score Matched Cohort Study.  HSS journal : the musculoskeletal journal of Hospital for Special Surgery. 2017 In Process GET IT
Effect of High-Grade Preoperative Knee Laxity on Anterior Cruciate Ligament Reconstruction Outcomes.  The American journal of sports medicine. 2016 In Process GET IT
Times cited: 1



























































more ...
BACKGROUND
Education and Training
M.Sc., University of Toronto (Canada) 1996
M.D., McGill University Faculty of Medicine (Canada) 1991
B.Sc., University of Montreal (Canada) 1987
CONTACT
Primary Email
©2017 VIVO Project | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO