###AuthorName=
###AuthorTitle=
###Affiliation=
###Position=
##############################
Menu
Search
Deakin University Australia
Home
Courses
Courses
Find a course
Study online
How to apply
Key dates
Entry pathways
Credit for Prior Learning
Fees
Scholarships
Institute of Koorie Education
Locations
Locations
Melbourne Burwood Campus
Geelong Waurn Ponds Campus
Geelong Waterfront Campus
Warrnambool Campus
Cloud Campus
Research institutes and centres
Deakin learning centres
Deakin corporate centres
China Office
Indonesia Office
South Asia Office
Life at Deakin
Life at Deakin
A day in the life
Why study at Deakin
Student life
Accommodation
Support services
Orientation and getting started
Graduations
Alumni
Alumni
Update your details
Alumni benefits
Webinars and resources
Alumni publications
Chapters and networks
Alumni Award Winners
Deakin Alumni Awards 2017
Where are they now?
Graduate documents
Volunteering
Contact us
Research
Research
Improving health and wellbeing
Designing smarter technologies
Enabling a sustainable world
Advancing society and culture
Research and industry
Institutes and centres
Find a researcher
Become a research student
Support for researchers
Research integrity
Research news
About Deakin
About Deakin
News
Events
Media releases
Strategic direction
Reputation
Values
Teaching and learning
Leadership and governance
Faculties and divisions
Work at Deakin
Collaboration
Collaboration
Industry and business
Community engagement
Vice-Chancellor's message
International partnerships
University partnerships
Giving to Deakin
Giving to Deakin
Why give to Deakin?
Ways to give
Our supporters
Give to Deakin now
Contact us
Contact us
International Students
Career practitioners
Library
Staff
Current students
Contact Deakin
My courses
0
Copyright
Please read this copyright notice regarding content on this website.
This website and its contents are subject to copyright under the laws of Australia and through international treaties. The copyright in this website is owned by Deakin University. Third parties own the copyright in some materials incorporated within this website. 
You may view this website and its contents using your web browser and save an electronic copy, or print out a copy, of parts of this website solely for your own information, personal research or study, providing that you include ‘© Deakin University' on the copy. 
You must not otherwise copy or share any part of this website for any other purpose except as expressly permitted under your local copyright laws or with Deakin University's prior consent. For permission to reproduce content on this website please send your request to copyright_inquiries@deakin.edu.au.
Copyright complaints and take-down notices
If you have identified a use of copyright material on the Deakin University IT network that may constitute a copyright infringement or a breach of agreed licence or contract, please notify us using the Copyright infringement take-down notice form. This form may be used by all complainants whether external or internal to the university.
Upon submission, this notice will be sent to the Deakin University designated representative for receiving complaints regarding the use of copyright material on the Deakin University IT network. Complaints will be dealt with in accordance with the Copyright Procedure.
If you are unable to use this form, or if you do not wish to submit your copyright infringement claim via this form, you may post or email your claim to the Deakin University designated representative for take-down notices, the Director of Information Technology.
Director, Information Technology
copyright-takedown@deakin.edu.au
Postal address:
Deakin University
Locked Bag 20000
Geelong, Victoria 3220
Staff within the university who have received a complaint about the use of copyright material on the Deakin University IT network must promptly forward the details of the complaint to the above designated representative for further action.
Copyright infringement take-down notice form
Rights and permissions for Deakin material
If you require permission to copy, communicate or modify content produced or published by Deakin, please contact the Copyright Manager with:
a description of the material you wish to use (including citation, publication information or relevant URL for where you've sourced the content)
a description of how you intend to use the material
where and how the finished product will be made available to your intended audience
the deadline for when you require permission.
Copyright Manager
Email the copyright manager
Postal address
Deakin University
Library
221 Burwood Hwy
Burwood, Victoria 3125
Copyright
Disclaimer
Privacy
Sitemap
Jobs at Deakin
About us
Giving to Deakin
Emergency information
Contact us
Connect with us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
Explore
This
YouTube
weibo
We acknowledge the traditional owners of the lands on which Deakin University stands and we pay our respect.
© Copyright Deakin University 2016. Deakin University CRICOS Provider Code 00113B.