###AuthorName=Richard Serjeantson
###AuthorTitle=Dr
###Affiliation=Faculty of History
###Position=Lecturer
##############################
skip to primary navigation
skip to content
Study at Cambridge
About the University
Research at Cambridge
Quick links
Log in
Home
Faculty of History
About Us
Dr Richard Serjeantson
Faculty of History
Home
About Us
About Us Overview
Academic Staff directory
Retired Members
Graduate Students directory
Support Staff directory
Library Staff directory
Subject Groups
Subject Groups Overview
American History
Ancient and Medieval History
Early Modern History
Economic, Social and Cultural History
Modern British History
Modern European History
Political Thought And Intellectual History
World History
Equality and Diversity
Health and Safety
Health and Safety Overview
Field Trips Risk Assessment template
Meetings calendar
I.T. facilities
The building
Directions to the Faculty
Information for visiting scholars
Contact us
Research
Research Overview
Research Projects
Research Projects Overview
Ancient and Medieval History
Ancient and Medieval History Overview
Marriage and Domesticity in the Middle Ages
Models of Authority: Scottish Charters and the Emergence of Government 1100-1250
The Art of Speech. The Episcopal Promotion of the Trivium in Early Medieval Italy
The transmission of knowledge in the early middle ages
Early Modern History
Early Modern History Overview
Anglo-European Cultural Exchange and Inter-Confessional Sociability, 1648-1715
Domestic Devotions: the Place of Piety in the Renaissance Italian Home
Selling exotic plant products in Paris, 1670-1730
A Young Man's Progress
Remembering the Reformation
Economic, Social and Cultural History
Economic, Social and Cultural History Overview
The Occupational Structure of Britain, 1379-1911
History of Wealth
Magna Carta Itineraries
The Power and the Water. Connecting Pasts and Futures
Who did the dirty work? Energy and trade in Europe, 1800-1970
Modern British History
Modern British History Overview
History of Wealth
The Unmaking of the English Working Class: Selfhood, Possessions, and Politics, c.1930-1983
Secondary Education and Social Change in the UK since 1945
Modern European History
Modern European History Overview
Germany and the World: Cultural Exchanges and Mutual Perceptions
Scenarios of empire and local identity: Public culture in 19th c. South Caucasus
Conspiracy and Democracy: History, Political Theory and Internet Research
The Allies, the European Resistance and the Origins of the Cold War in Europe
World History
World History Overview
Sites of Asian Interaction: Networks, Ideas, Archives
Revolutionary Springs: How Revolt Spread in an Age of Maritime Empire
Exploring Traditions: Sources for a Global History of Science
Religion and citizenship in modern Africa
Moral reform and political challenge: Muslim sermons in East Africa
Ordering the Orient: a history of the publication of Eastern texts in Europe and America and the production of a cultural economy of Orientalism, 1850-1939
Research Funding
Research Funding Overview
Grant Funding by Sponsor
Early Career Schemes
Fellowships and Research Leave Schemes
Conference and Travel Funding
Internal Research Funding
Institutional Research Partners
X5 Costing Form
Conferences
Conferences Overview
Past conferences
Past conferences Overview
Sectarianism and Beyond: New Perspectives in Modern Irish History
Inviting Europe
Erudition and Confessionalisation in Early Modern Europe
Thirty-Sixth Battle Conference on Anglo-Norman Studies
The Futures of Atlantic Intellectual History: Themes, Methods, Disciplines
Kingdoms, empire and legacies: assessing the Stuart dynasty and its histories, 1603-2014
Looted Art and Restitution in the Twentieth Century
New Pathways in the History of Political Economy
Benares, Bayly and the Making of World History
Religious Institutions and Religious Practices in Tridentine Catholicism
Minorities in Contact
The Global Bourgeoisie. The Rise of the Middle Classes in the Age of Empire
States of Exception in American History
Thirteenth Century England XVI
The Struggle for Democracy
The 1916 Easter Rising in a global perspective: the revolution that succeeded?
Hitler & Holocaust on the Screen: Perspectives & Challenges
International Conference: Marriage’s Global Past
History, Politics, Law
Malthus: Food, Land, People
China Goes Global: New Perspectives on Chinese Migration in China and Abroad
Minority influences in medieval society
Sixth International Symposium in Early Medieval Coinage
Thirteenth Century England XVII
Women’s Suffrage and Political Activism
The Ottoman Conquest and Knowledge: A Transcultural History
Measuring Matters: Histories of Assessing Inequality
Current Students
Current Students Overview
Undergraduates
Graduates
Prospective Students
Prospective Students Overview
Undergraduates
Graduates
Library
Library Overview
Opening hours and term dates
Contact details
News
Using the Seeley
Using the Seeley Overview
Library regulations
Library catalogue
Locating material in the library
Computing and photocopying
Seeley collections
Seeley collections Overview
New acquisitions
Main history collection
Journals
Audio-visual collection
Latin American Studies
Book recommendation form
The POLIS Collection
Check your library account
Pay your fines online
Buy print credits
Online resources
Online resources Overview
Electronic resources by paper
Electronic resources by paper Overview
British political history, 380-1100 (Paper 2)
British political history, 1050-1509 (Paper 3)
British political history, 1485-1750 (Paper 4)
British political history, 1688-1886 (Paper 5)
British political history since 1880 (Paper 6)
British economic and social history, 380-1100 (Paper 7)
British economic and social history, 1050-c.1500 (Paper 8)
British economic and social history, c.1500-1750 (Paper 9)
British economic and social history, 1700-1880 (Paper 10)
British economic and social history since c.1880 (Paper 11)
European history, 776 B.C.-A.D. 69 (Paper 12)
European history, 31 B.C.-A.D. 900 (Paper 13)
European history, 900-c.1215 (Paper 14)
European history, 1200-1520 (Paper 15)
European history, 1450-1760 (Paper 16)
European history, 1715-1890 (Paper 17)
European history since 1890 (Paper 18)
History of political thought to c.1700 (Paper 19)
History of political thought from c.1700 to c.1890 (Paper 20)
Empires and world history from the fifteenth century to the First World War (Paper 21)
North American history from c.1500 to 1865 (Paper 22)
World history since 1914 (Paper 23)
The history of the United States from 1865 (Paper 24)
Researching your dissertation
Libraries, archives, museums, galleries
Keeping up-to-date
History of the Seeley
Frequently Asked Questions
Seminars
Seminars Overview
Research Seminars Calendar
Cambridge History Workshop
Africa Research Forum
American History
Cambridge Byzantine Seminar
Cambridge Group for the History of Population and Social Structure
Core seminar in economic and social history
Digital History
Early Modern British and Irish History
Early Modern Economic and Social History
Early Modern European History
Early Modern Interdisciplinary
Early Modern World History
The Eighteenth Century Seminar
English Legal History
Financial History
Global Intellectual History
History and Economics
Intelligence Seminar
Medieval Economic and Social History
Medieval Encounters
Medieval History Seminar
Medieval History Seminar podcasts
Middle East History Group
Modern British History
Modern Cultural History
Modern Economic and Social History and Policy
Modern European History
Modern Irish History
Political Thought and Intellectual History
Public and Popular History
Quantitative History Seminar
World History
Job Opportunities
Podcasts
  Dr Richard Serjeantson
Faculty of History
About Us
Academic Staff directory
Retired Members
Graduate Students directory
Support Staff directory
Library Staff directory
Subject Groups
Equality and Diversity
Health and Safety
Meetings calendar
I.T. facilities
The building
Directions to the Faculty
Information for visiting scholars
Contact us
Research
Current Students
Prospective Students
Library
Seminars
Job Opportunities
Podcasts
Fellow and Lecturer in History, Trinity College
Trinity College
Cambridge CB2 1TQ
Email: rws1001@cam.ac.uk
Office Phone: +44 (0)1223 338589
Websites:
https://cambridge.academia.edu/RichardSerjeantson
Download as vCard
Biography:
B.A., University of York
M.Phil., Ph.D., University of Cambridge
Procter Fellow, Princeton University 1996–97
Lecturer in History, Trinity College, Cambridge 2001–
Visiting Professor, California Institute of Technology 2007
Crausaz-Wordsworth Fellow, CRASSH 2013
Subject groups/Research projects
Early Modern History:
Political Thought And Intellectual History:
Departments and Institutes
Trinity College:
Research Interests
My research interests lie in British and broader European history between the Renaissance and the Enlightenment. Within that period I am particularly interested in the shared history of philosophy and the sciences, and in their conceptual foundations; in political thought and action; in the production, circulation, and censorship of manuscripts and printed books; and in religion and irreligion. Figures studied have included Elizabeth Cary, Edward Herbert (of Cherbury), Thomas Hobbes, Meric Casaubon, John Milton, John Locke, and David Hume. A study of the scientific education of the naturalist Francis Willughby (1635–1672) has recently been published in a volume of essays on Willughby, while an account of the career of John Wilkins (1614–1672) immediately prior to the founding of the Royal Society is in press.
Work-in-progress includes studies of the political significance of Thomas More’s Utopia; of the early philosophical development of René Descartes; of the politics of religious violence in the second Reformation; of Edward Herbert and the history of religion; and of the Emperor Constantine in Reformation and Counter-Reformation historiography.
I am also pursuing ongoing research into the figure of Francis Bacon (1561–1626), both as a political actor and thinker and as a natural philosopher. A study of the significance of Bacon’s notion of the ‘Interpretation of Nature’ for late Renaissance natural philosophy appears in the December 2014 issue of Isis.
Research Supervision
I offer Ph.D. supervision and advice in topics from the Renaissance to the Enlightenment, with a focus on seventeenth-century Britain, for the Faculty of History, the Department of History and Philosophy of Science, and the Faculty of English.
I teach at Masters level for the M.Phil. in Political Thought and Intellectual History, the M.Phil. in Early Modern History, and the M.Phil. in History, Philosophy and Sociology of Science, Technology and Medicine. Masters students have written on a range of subjects, including: the reception of Lucretius in Renaissance Europe; the status of war in humanist educational writings; the natural philosophy of William Gilbert; Lancelot Andrewes; the reception of Giovanni Botero in England; theories of error in seventeenth-century philosophy; Sir John Eliot's prison writings; the study of politics in the English universities in the  earlier seventeenth century; Thomas Hobbes's changing account of the state of nature; George Rust and intellectual life in 1650s Cambridge; James Harrington as a reader of John Selden; the Royal Society's 'History of Trades' project; John Locke after 1689; the vegetarian writings of Thomas Tryon; Samuel Clarke's theory of human nature; the natural philosophy of Jean-Théophile Desaguliers; anti-Trinitarian debates in the earlier eighteenth century; perceptions of the Anglo-Saxon and Norman pasts in William Lambarde, David Hume and Edward Gibbon; and John Adams and republican political thought after the American Revolution.
Ph.D. students have worked, or are working on: the theory and practice of princely education in sixteenth-century Britain (Dr Aysha Pollnitz); the doctrine of presumptions in late Renaissance civil law (Dr Adolfo Giuliani); natural philosophy and natural theology in the period 1570–1630 (Dr Thomas Woolford); the idea of sovereignty in early modern English historical writing (Dr Rei Kanemura); theories of the origins of religious belief in the British Enlightenment (Robin Mills); and the reception and translation of Giovanni Botero's writings in England (Jamie Trace).
Teaching
I teach history at Undergraduate, MPhil and PhD level.
Other Professional Activities
Assistant Director of the Oxford Francis Bacon
Editorial Board member of Intellectual History Review
Editorial Board member of Renaissance Studies
Editorial Board member of Lias
Consulting Editor of the Journal of the History of Ideas
Senior Research Investigator of the ERC-funded project 'Genius Before Romanticism' (PI: Dr Alexander Marr)
Advisory Board Member of the ERC-funded project ‘War and the Supernatural in Early Modern Europe’ (PI: Dr Ian Campbell, Queen’s University, Belfast)
Key Publications
Generall Learning: A Seventeenth-Century Treatise on the Formation of the General Scholar (ed. and introd.), by Meric Casaubon (Cambridge: RTM, 1999; 2nd edn. New York: Continuum, 2004) [Essay review]
‘Testimony and Proof in Early-Modern England’, Studies in History and Philosophy of Science, 30:2 (1999), 195–236
‘The Passions and Animal Language, 1540–1700’, Journal of the History of Ideas, 62:3 (2001), 425–44
‘Herbert of Cherbury before Deism: The early reception of the De veritate’, The Seventeenth Century, 16:2 (2001), 217–38
‘Natural Knowledge in the New Atlantis’, in Francis Bacon’s ‘New Atlantis’, ed. by Bronwen Price (Manchester: Manchester University Press, 2002), pp. 82–105
‘Hume’s General Rules and the “Chief Business of Philosophers”’, in Impressions of Hume, ed. by Marina Frasca-Spada and P. J. E. Kail (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2005), pp. 187–212
‘Proof and Persuasion’, in The Cambridge History of Science, vol. III: Early Modern Science ed. by Katherine Park and Lorraine Daston (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2006), pp. 132–75
‘Hobbes, the Universities, and the History of Philosophy’, in The Philosopher in Early Modern Europe, ed. by Conal Condren, Stephen Gaukroger, and Ian Hunter (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2006), pp. 113–39
‘Elizabeth Cary and the Great Tew Circle’, in The Literary Career and Legacy of Elizabeth Cary, 1613–1680, ed. by Heather Wolfe (London: Palgrave, 2007), pp. 165–82
‘Testimony: The artless proof’, in Renaissance Figures of Speech, ed. by Sylvia Adamson, Gavin Alexander and Katrin Ettenhuber (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2007), pp. 179–94
‘“Human Understanding” and the Genre of Locke’s Essay’, Intellectual History Review, 18:2 (2008), 157–71
(with Thomas Woolford) ‘The Scribal Publication of a Printed Book: Francis Bacon’s Certaine Considerations Touching the Church of England (1604)’, The Library, n.s. 10:2 (2009), 119–56
‘Samson Agonistes and “Single Rebellion”’, in The Oxford Handbook of Milton, ed. by Nicholas McDowell and Nigel Smith (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2009), pp. 613–31
‘The Soul’, in The Oxford Handbook of Philosophy in Early Modern Europe, ed. by Desmond M. Clarke and Catherine Wilson (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2011), pp. 119–41
‘Hume’s Natural History of Religion (1757) and the demise of modern Eusebianism’, in The Intellectual Consequences of Religious Heterodoxy 1600–1750, ed. by John Robertson and Sarah Mortimer (Leiden: Brill, 2012), pp. 267–95
‘Becoming a Philosopher in Seventeenth-Century Britain’, in The Oxford Handbook of Philosophy in Seventeenth-Century Britain, ed. by Peter R. Anstey (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2013), pp. 9–38
‘The Philosophy of Francis Bacon in Early Jacobean Oxford: With an edition of an unknown manuscript of the Valerius Terminus’, Historical Journal, 56:4 (2013), 1087–1106
‘Francis Bacon and the “Interpretation of Nature” in the Late Renaissance’, Isis, 105:4 (2014), 681-705
‘The Education of Francis Willughby’, in Virtuoso by Nature: The Scientific Worlds of Francis Willughby FRS (1635–1672), ed. Tim Birkhead (Leiden: Brill, 2016), pp. 44–98
‘Francis Bacon and the Politics of Learning’, in For the Sake of Learning, ed. Ann Blair and Anja Goeing, 2 vols (Leiden, Brill, 2016), pp. 195–211
Student Introductions
‘Introduction’ to Thomas Hobbes, Leviathan, ed. Tom Griffiths (Ware: Wordsworth Classics, 2014), pp. vii–xxviii
  Contact us
Postal Address:
Faculty of History
West Road
Cambridge UK
CB3 9EF
Telephone +44 (0)1223 3 35340
Information provided by:
   gen.enq@hist.cam.ac.uk
Information for...
Faculty staff (login required)
Visiting scholars
Alumni
Connect with us
Twitter
Facebook
About this site
↑ Top
Site map
Site Privacy and Cookie Policies
© 2015 University of Cambridge
University A-Z
Contact the University
Accessibility
Freedom of information
Terms and conditions
Study at Cambridge
Undergraduate
Graduate
International students
Continuing education
Executive and professional education
Courses in education
About the University
How the University and Colleges work
Visiting the University
Map
News
Events
Jobs
Give to Cambridge
Research at Cambridge
News
Features
Discussion
Spotlight on...
About research at Cambridge
This Site Uses Cookies
We may use cookies to record some preference settings and to analyse how you use our web site. We may also use external analysis systems which may set additional cookies to perform their analysis.These cookies (and any others in use) are detailed in our site privacy and cookie policies and are integral to our web site. You can delete or disable these cookies in your web browser if you wish but then our site may not work correctly.
I have read and understood this message. Hide this message