###AuthorName=Monique M. Turner
###AuthorTitle=Ph.D
###Affiliation=Department of Prevention and Community Health
###Position=Associate Professor
##############################
Skip to main content
Home
About
Admissions
Academics
Departments
Research
Services
Facilities
Give
Search
Search
Close
You are here
HOME
DEPARTMENTS
PREVENTION AND COMMUNITY HEALTH
DIRECTORY
Monique M.
Turner, PhD, MA
Associate Professor

202-994-3672
202-994-3601
mmturner@gwu.edu
215 - Floor 2
950 New Hampshire Avenue

Department(s):
Prevention and Community Health
TABS
Bio
(active tab)
Expertise
Publications
Monique Turner is Associate Professor in the Department of Prevention and Community Health. After receiving her Ph.D. in communication from Michigan State University, Turner held faculty positions in the Departments of Communication at the University of Oklahoma, University of Texas, and the University of Maryland before coming to GWU.  Turner’s expertise is in campaign message design and evaluation, risk communication, risk perception, and cognitive processing of health risks—including informed decision making and critical thinking.  Dr. Turner is the author of the Anger Activism model—a behavioral theory explaining the conditions when emotions (anger) can be constructive versus deleterious.  She has also worked extensively on the role that guilt and guilt messaging plays in risk perception.  As the former director of the Center for Risk Communication Research at the University of Maryland, Turner’s research has been funded by organizations such as the Food and Drug Administration, the Joint Institute for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition (JIFSAN), the Centers for Disease Control, Health and Human Services, the Department of Homeland Security and most recently the Redstone Center for Global Health and Wellness.  Turner has written and published over 50 research papers, journal articles, book chapters and books on persuasion, health communication and risk perception.  She was formerly the associate editor of Communication Research Reports and former senior Editor of Health Communication.  Turner is the past chairperson of both the Communication and Social Cognition Division of the National Communication Association and the Health Communication Division of the International Communication Association.  
CURRICULUM VITAE
EXPERTISE: 
Health Communication
Social Marketing
Health Disparities
Nutrition
Obesity
Prevention
Program Evaluation
EDUCATION: 
Bachelor of Arts in English, Michigan State University, 1994.
Master of Arts in Communication, Michigan State University, 1996.
Doctor of Philosophy in Communication, Michigan State University, 1999. 
TEACHING: 
PUBH 6007 Social and Behavioral Attributes of Public Health
PUBH 6571 (formerly 396) Social Marketing: Theory & Practice 
PUBH 8409 Advanced Health Communication
  COMMUNITY SERVICE: 
Risk Communication Training for Food and Drug Administration
Risk Communication Training for Army Corps of Engineers
Critical Thinking Training for Army Corps of Engineers
Social Marketing Formative Research for World Bank, International Finance Corporation
Crisis Messaging for Crown Holdings Inc.
Risk Communication Training for Kraft Corp.
Risk Perception Instruction for Valspar Corp.
Developed Food Safety Risk Communication Manual for International Food Information Council (IFIC) 
INSTITUTES AND CENTERS: 
Fellow, Sumner M. Redstone Global Center for Prevention and Wellness
PUBLICATIONS: 
Articles in Refereed Journals
* Author was a graduate student at the time of the research.
  Compliance with Tobacco Control Policies in India: An Examination of Facilitators and Barriers.
Turner, M. M., Rimal, R., *Lumby, E., Cohen, J., *Surette, A., *Roundy, V., Feighery, E., & Shah, V. (in press). Compliance with Tobacco Control Policies in India: An Examination of Facilitators and Barriers, The International Journal of Tuberculosis and Lung Disease.
  Social Media and Sexual Behavior Among Latino Youth: Is there a link?
*Landry, M., Turner M. M., & Vyas, A. (in press) Social Media and Sexual Behavior Among Latino Youth: Is there a link? Journal of Adolescent Health
  A two-wave observational study of compliance with youth access and tobacco advertising provisions of the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act in India
Mead E. L., Rimal R. N., Cohen J. E., Turner M., Lumby E., Feighery E., Shah V. (in press) A two-wave observational study of compliance with youth access and tobacco advertising provisions of the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act in India. Nicotine & Tobacco Research.
  Latino adolescents’ social media utilization: implications for mobile health interventions.
*Landry, M., Vyas, A., Turner M. M., Glick, S., & Wood, S. (in press). Latino adolescents’ social media utilization: implications for mobile health interventions. Journal of Medical Internet Research,
  “You ain’t guiltin’ me into nothin’”:  Extending the Theory of Reactance to Guilt Appeals”.
Bessarabova, E., Turner, M. M., Fink, E. L., & Blustein, N. B. (in press). “You ain’t guiltin’ me into nothin’”:  Extending the Theory of Reactance to Guilt Appeals”, Zeitschrift für Psychologie
  Do Sexual Assault Bystander Interventions Change Men’s Intentions?  Applying the Theory of Normative Social Behavior to Predicting Bystander Outcomes.
Mabry, A.* & Turner, M. M. (in press). Do Sexual Assault Bystander Interventions Change Men’s Intentions?  Applying the Theory of Normative Social Behavior to Predicting Bystander Outcomes. Journal of Health Communication.
  Assessing Bystander Behavior Intentions (BBI) Towards Friends to Prevent Dating Violence:  Development of the BBI-Friends Scale Through Concept Mapping and Exploratory Factor Analysis.
*Borsky, A., McDonnell, K., Turner, M. M., & Rimal, R. N. (in press). Assessing Bystander Behavior Intentions (BBI) Towards Friends to Prevent Dating Violence:  Development of the BBI-Friends Scale Through Concept Mapping and Exploratory Factor Analysis, Violence and Victims
  Framing pictorial cigarette warning labels to motivate young smokers to quit.
Mays D., Turner M. M., Zhao X., Evans W. D., Luta G. L., Tercyak K. P. Framing pictorial cigarette warning labels to motivate young smokers to quit. Nicotine & Tobacco Research. 2014.
  Predicting Visual Attention to Nutrition Information on Food Products: The Influence of Motivation and Ability.                                                        
Turner, M. M., *Skubisz, C., *Silverman, M., *Patel, S., & *Austin, L. Predicting Visual Attention to Nutrition Information on Food Products: The Influence of Motivation and Ability. Journal of Health Communication. 2014.
  A Multidimensional Analysis of Reactance, Restoration, and Cognitive Structure.
*Bessarabova, E. B., Fink, E. L. & Turner, M. M. A Multidimensional Analysis of Reactance, Restoration, and Cognitive Structure, Human Communication Research. 2014.
  A Double Dose of Fear: A Theory-Based Content Analysis of News Articles Surrounding the 2006 Cough Syrup Contamination Crisis in Panama.
Turner, M. M., *Boudewyns, V., & *Kirby-Straker, R. A Double Dose of Fear: A Theory-Based Content Analysis of News Articles Surrounding the 2006 Cough Syrup Contamination Crisis in Panama, Risk Management. 2013:15: 79-99.
  Shame-free Guilt Appeals: Testing the Emotional and Cognitive Effects of Shame and Guilt Appeals.
*Boudewyns, V ., Turner, M. M., & *Paquin, R. Shame-free Guilt Appeals: Testing the Emotional and Cognitive Effects of Shame and Guilt Appeals.  Psychology and Marketing. 2013: 30: 811-825
  Mood and Reactions to Political Advertising: A Test and Extension of the Hedonic Contingency Hypothesis.
Turner, M. M., *Underhill, J.C., & Kaid, L. L. Mood and Reactions to Political Advertising: A Test and Extension of the Hedonic Contingency Hypothesis. Southern Communication Journal. 2013: 17: 8-24. 
  Predicting Psychological Ripple Effects:  The Role of Cultural Identity, In-Group / Out-Group Identification and Attributions of Blame in Crisis Communication,
*Anagondahalli, D. & Turner, M. M. Predicting Psychological Ripple Effects:  The Role of Cultural Identity, In-Group / Out-Group Identification and Attributions of Blame in Crisis Communication, Risk Analysis: An International Journal. 2012: 32: 695-712.
  Motivating emergency preparedness behaviors: The differential effects of guilt appeals and actually anticipating guilty feelings
Turner, M. M. & *Underhill, J. Motivating emergency preparedness behaviors: The differential effects of guilt appeals and actually anticipating guilty feelings, Communication Quarterly. 2012: 60: 545-559.
  A test of competing hypotheses of the effects of mood on persuasion.
*Banas, J. A., Turner, M. M., & *Shulman, H. A test of competing hypotheses of the effects of mood on persuasion. Communication Quarterly. 2012: 60: 143-164.
  Developing New Hazard Category Language for the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry’s Public Health Assessment Products.
Ulirsch, G., Orloff, K., Alexanian, D., Allen-Lewis, S., Fagliano, J., Langmann, D. M., Larson, K., Miles, D., Prohonic., E., Telfer, J., Robinson, S., Turner, M. M., & Berkowitz, J. Developing New Hazard Category Language for the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry’s Public Health Assessment Products, Journal of Environmental Health. 2011: 73: 76.
  Exploring the “that’s-not-all” effect: A test of theoretical explanations.
*Banas, J. A., & Turner, M. M. Exploring the “that’s-not-all” effect: A test of theoretical explanations. Southern Communication Journal. 2011: 76: 305-322.
  The Attribute-Centered Approach for Understanding Health Behaviors:  Initial Ideas and Future Research Directions.
Rimal, R. N., Lapinski, M. K., Turner, M. M. & Smith, K. G. The Attribute-Centered Approach for Understanding Health Behaviors:  Initial Ideas and Future Research Directions. Studies in Communication Sciences. 2011: 11: 15-34.
  Do lay people prepare both sides of an argument? The effects of confidence, forewarning, and expected interaction on seeking out counter-attitudinal information.
Turner, M.M., *Yao, S., *Baker, S., *Goodman, J., & *Materese, S. Do lay people prepare both sides of an argument? The effects of confidence, forewarning, and expected interaction on seeking out counter-attitudinal information, Argumentation and Advocacy. 2010: 46: 226-239.
  The Effects of Altercasting and Counter-attitudinal Behavior on Compliance:  A Lost Letter Technique Investigation.
Turner, M. M., *Banas, J. A., *Rains, S. A., *Jang, S., *Moore, J. L., & *Morrison, D. The Effects of Altercasting and Counter-attitudinal Behavior on Compliance:  A Lost Letter Technique Investigation. Communication Reports. 2010: 23: 1-13.
  Informal Arguing:  The Likelihood of Providing Arguments, Rebuttals, Refutations, and Evidence in an Argumentative Interaction.
Limon, M. S., Turner, M. M., Zompetti, J. P. Informal Arguing:  The Likelihood of Providing Arguments, Rebuttals, Refutations, and Evidence in an Argumentative Interaction, Argumentation and Advocacy. 2009: 45: 37-48. 
  The Moderators and Mediators of Door-in-the-Face Requests:  Is it a Negotiation or Helping Experience?
Turner, M. M., Tamborini, R., Limon, M. S., & Zuckerman-Hyman, C. The Moderators and Mediators of Door-in-the-Face Requests:  Is it a Negotiation or Helping Experience?  Communication Monographs. 2007: 74: 333-356. 
  Psychological Reactance and Persuasive Health Communication: A Test and Extension of the Intertwined Model.
*Rains, S., & Turner, M. M. Psychological Reactance and Persuasive Health Communication: A Test and Extension of the Intertwined Model, Human Communication Research. 2007: 33: 241-269. 
  Using emotion to prevent risky behavior:  The anger activism model.
Turner, M. M. Using emotion to prevent risky behavior:  The anger activism model. Public Relations Review. 2007: 33: 114-119.
  The research team concept II:  (Still) an approach to graduate training.
Turner, M. M. The research team concept II:  (Still) an approach to graduate training. Communication Research Reports. 2006: 23: 225-230.
  The desirability of using confirmatory factor analysis on published scales.
Levine, T., Hullett, C. R., Turner, M. M., & Lapinski, M. K. The desirability of using confirmatory factor analysis on published scales.  Communication Research Reports. 2006: 23: 309-314.
  The role of anxiety in seeking and retaining risk information:  Testing the risk perception attitude framework in two studies.
Turner, M. M., Rimal, R. N., Morrison, D*., & Kim, H.* The role of anxiety in seeking and retaining risk information:  Testing the risk perception attitude framework in two studies. Human Communication Research. 2006: 32: 130-156.
  Social glue or relational ruin?  The joint effect of relationship type and gossip valence on liking, trust, and credibility.
Turner, M. M., *Mazur, M. A., *Wendel, N., & *Winslow, R. Social glue or relational ruin?  The joint effect of relationship type and gossip valence on liking, trust, and credibility.  Communication Monographs. 2003: 70: 129-141.
  Comparing the influence of parents and peers on the choice to use drugs:  A meta-analytic summary of the literature.
Allen, M., Donohue, W. A., Griffin, A., Ryan, D., & Turner, M. M. Comparing the influence of parents and peers on the choice to use drugs:  A meta-analytic summary of the literature. Criminal Justice and Behavior. 2003: 30: 163-186.
  The effects of anger, sadness and happiness on persuasive message processing:  A test of the negative state relief model.
Mitchell, M. M., *Brown, K. M., *Morris-Villagran, M., & *Villagran, P. D. The effects of anger, sadness and happiness on persuasive message processing:  A test of the negative state relief model. Communication Monographs. 2001: 68: 347-359.
  Changing college students’ perceptions of their risk for genital warts:  The effects of discrete emotion and message framing.
Mitchell, M. M. Changing college students’ perceptions of their risk for genital warts:  The effects of discrete emotion and message framing. Communication Studies. 2001: 52: 141-152.
(Special issue for Federation Prize Winners, an annual research grant awarded to one outstanding research project.)
  The effects of timing of suspicion and outcome involvement on biased message processing.
Hubbell, A., Mitchell, M. M., & Griese, A. The effects of timing of suspicion and outcome involvement on biased message processing.  Communication Monographs. 2001: 68: 115-132.
  The effects of positive and negative mood on persuasive message processing.
Mitchell, M. M. Motivated, but not able?  The effects of positive and negative mood on persuasive message processing. Communication Monographs. 2000: 67: 215-225.
  The valence of close relationships and the focus of individual attributes in six months of television talk show topics.
Smith, S. W., Mitchell, M. M., Orrego, V., Johnson, A. J., & Ah Yun, K. The valence of close relationships and the focus of individual attributes in six months of television talk show topics. Communication Studies. 2000: 50: 175-187.
  Expert advice on talk television:  A beneficial source of health information?
Johnson, A., Smith, S. W., Mitchell, M., Orrego, V., & Ah Yun, K. Expert advice on talk television:  A beneficial source of health information? Communication Research Reports. 1999: 16: 91-101.
  The impact of satisfaction with conflict management behavior on relational and sexual satisfaction.
Mitchell, M. M., & Boster, F. J. The impact of satisfaction with conflict management behavior on relational and sexual satisfaction. Communication Research Reports. 1999: 15: 388-396.
  The impact of guilt and type of compliance-gaining message on helping behavior.
Boster, F. J., Mitchell, M. M., Lapinski, M. K., Orrego, V. O., Cooper, H., & Reinke, R. The impact of guilt and type of compliance-gaining message on helping behavior. Communication Monographs. 1999: 66: 168-177.
Is this your profile? MAKE EDITS
TAKE THE NEXT STEP
GET STARTED
APPLY
VISIT GW
Milken Institute School of Public Health
TWITTER
FACEBOOK
LINKEDIN
YOUTUBE
950 New Hampshire Ave, NW
7th Floor
Washington, DC 20052
Phone  (202) 994-9412
Fax  (202) 994-3773
Admissions
gwsphadmit@gwu.edu
Phone (202) 994-2160
Fax (202) 994-1850
Student Services
Phone (202) 994-0822
Media Relations
gwsphmedia@gwu.edu
Phone (202) 994-5179
  SECURITY INFO
REPORT A WEBSITE ISSUE/SUGGESTION
The George Washington University
2121 Eye Street, NW
Washington, DC 20052
Phone: (202) 994-1000
CAMPUS ADVISORIES
NON-DISCRIMINATION POLICY
CONTACT GW
A-Z INDEX
PRIVACY POLICY
TERMS OF USE
COPYRIGHT