###AuthorName=Stephanie Leitch
###AuthorTitle=Ph.D
###Affiliation=Department of Art History
###Position=Director of Graduate Studies & Associate Professor
##############################
Skip to main content
FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY | COLLEGE OF FINE ARTS
APPLY
GIVE
Apply
About
Programs
People
News
Resources
Contact
Home » Stephanie Leitch
Stephanie Leitch
Published February 18, 2014
Director of Graduate Studies & Associate Professor
Northern European Art and History of Graphics
Room 3025 WJB
Department of Art History
Curriculum Vitae
Contact
sleitch@fsu.edu
(850) 644-7067



Research Areas
Stephanie Leitch (Ph.D., University of Chicago) joined the faculty in 2007. Her current project The Art of Observation in the Early Modern Print focuses on the visual treatment of novelties and the organizational schemes invented to handle them in printed media. Visual impulses to document observations in new epistemic genres such as cosmographies, botanicals, and physiognomies tread a careful tightrope between naturalistic space and normative models. Challenging the canonical notion that Renaissance visuality was typically formalized in naturalistic space, printed genres developing informational aims frequently subordinated veristic concerns to documentary formulations. This project examines the surface tension endemic to print in the charting of cosmographic and geographic information, in the battle between particularity and convention in physiognomies and Kunstbücher, and in the rise of the visual conceit of anamorphosis to plot the multivalent contributions to new knowledge.
Her book Mapping Ethnography in Early Modern Germany: New Worlds in Print Culture (Basingstoke, UK: Palgrave Macmillan, 2010) locates a moment of relativistic and proto- ethnographic treatment of extra-Europeans in the print culture of early sixteenth century Augsburg. It identifies new visual thinking about humanity in the “new worlds” of America, Africa and Asia as the result of a productive exchange amongst artists Hans Burgkmair, Jörg Breu and humanists in their milieu. Their prints challenge both art historical and anthropological models to consider cross-cultural exchange in Renaissance print culture and argue for the role of visual culture in ethnography’s development. Mapping Ethnography in Early Modern Germany won the Roland H. Bainton prize for Art History in 2011.
Her new book project, The Art of Observation in the Early Modern Print (1500-1700), argues for the role of prints in constructing the physical and pictorial practices of observations in the early modern period. First-hand observations were both visualized and organized in images that sought to reproduce unmediated experience with the world. Prints in nascent epistemic genres helped cue observation, calibrate sightings, and thus, shaped and sharpened visual acuity. The prescriptions these images delivered for visually investigating human, terrestrial and cosmographic phenomena challenged enshrined knowledge by presenting how-to information arguably of more immediate concern to lay audiences—images that could help one spot a chicken thief by a close reading of physiognomies, locate oneself at sea by sighting celestial phenomena, gauge distances, or assist in the interpretation of prodigious occurrences. Aligning avenues of inquiry from art history and the history of science, this book scrutinizes the visual strategies at work in physiognomies, cosmographies, and natural histories to assess how they supported claims of first-hand experience.
Teaching Areas
Lecture Courses Offered
Art of Northern Europe
Cosmopolitan Renaissance
Cross-cultural Currents in the Renaissance
History of Printmaking
Graduate Seminars
Rethinking the Renaissance
European Encounters with the New World
Fact and Fiction in the Early Modern Print
Renaissance Organization: Documenting, Collecting, and Remembering
Selected Publications
“Visual Acuity and the Physiognomer’s Art of Observation,” Oxford Art Journal 2015.
“Vespucci’s Triangle and the Shape of the World,” in A. Cardoso and L. Villas Bôas (eds.), Cadernos de Letras 29: Estudos Atlânticos: Literatura, História, Cultura.
“Positive ID and the Renaissance Printed Profile” in Print Theory (forthcoming).
Mapping Ethnography in Early Modern Germany: New Worlds in Print Culture (Palgrave, 2010).
“Burgkmair’s Peoples of Africa and India (1508) and the Origins of Ethnography in Print,” Art Bulletin 91:2 (June 2009), 134-15.
“The Wild Man, Charlemagne, and the German Body,” Art History: Journal of the Association of Art Historian 31:3 (June 2008), 283-302.
“Seeing Objects in Personal Devotion,” Pious Journeys: Christian Devotional Art and Practice in the later Middle Ages and Renaissance (Chicago, 2001)


Apply
How to Apply
Admissions & Finances
About
About the Department
About the College
Bylaws
Programs
Art History BA
Minors
Art History MA & PhD
International Opportunities
MA in Museum & Cultural Heritage Studies
People
Faculty & Staff
Students
Alumni
Dissertations
Visiting Scholars
News
Events
MCHS Blog
Submit News
Newsletter Signup
Resources
Department Calendar
All Resources
Media Center
Facilities & Technology
Graduate Symposium
Room Schedules
University Resources
Research & Teaching
Contact
Contact Us
Social Media
Site Map
Giving
Art History Social Media

Report web issues
© 2017 Florida State University
600 W. College Avenue
Tallahassee, FL 32306
Questions or Comments
Privacy Policy
Copyright
FSU Directory Assistance:
850-644-2525
FSU Social Media: