###AuthorName=Barbara Ravelhofer
###AuthorTitle=Professor
###Affiliation=Department of English Studies
###Position=
##############################
A-Z Index Accessibility
Undergraduate
Postgraduate
International
Research
Business
Alumni
About Us
Visitors
Department of English Studies
You are in: Home ⇨ Department of English Studies ⇨ Staff
Staff
Academic Staff
Professor Barbara Ravelhofer
Professor in the Department of English Studies
Telephone: +44 (0) 191 33 42590
Fax: +44 (0) 191 33 42501
Room number: Room 103, Hallgarth House
Member in the Centre for Visual Arts and Culture
Member in the Institute of Medieval and Early Modern Studies
Contact Professor Barbara Ravelhofer
Career
Barbara Ravelhofer is Professor in English Literature at Durham and a Research Associate of the Centre for History and Economics, Cambridge. After a degree in English and German Literature from the University of Munich she continued for her Ph.D. at Trinity College, Cambridge, and was awarded a Junior Research Fellowship at St John’s College. She has also held Visiting Fellowships at the Universities of Bologna, Princeton, and Harvard.
Research
Apart from her general interest in English Literature and Renaissance Studies, Prof. Ravelhofer has written on European spectacle from the Middle Ages to the seventeenth century, editing and book history in comparative perspective, as well as oral forms of literature. Her edition of the French dance treatise Louange de la danse (2000) explores the life and professional practices of dancers and musicians in early modern London and Paris. Her most recent book, The Early Stuart Masque: Dance, Costume, and Music (2006), studies illusionistic theatre of the Renaissance. Drawing on a massive amount of documentary evidence relating to English productions as well as spectacle in France, Italy, Germany and the Ottoman Empire, the book elucidates professional ballet, theatre management, and dramatic performance at the early Stuart court. Currently she is working on a book about English court theatre, iconoclasm and the dawn of the Civil War. 
Prof. Ravelhofer would welcome students with research interests in early modern English literature and comparative literature, as well as medieval and Renaissance dance, costume, and drama.
Current Projects
Records of Early English Drama North-East
Sponsored by the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC)
REED-NE aims to find, catalogue and edit all records pertaining to music, spectacle, ceremony, dance and theatre in England's North-East from about the ninth century to 1642. Funded by the AHRC for the period 2013-18, the project is directed by Prof. John McKinnell (PI) and Prof. Ravelhofer (Co-I) in collaboration with the Institute for Medieval and Early Modern Studies (IMEMS) Durham, the Cathedral and Durham's World Heritage Site. Our team comprises editors from the UK, US and Canada, two postdoctoral researchers, and two PhD students, and we coordinate our activities with the REED headquarters at the University of Toronto. For further details see the project website.
The Complete Works of James Shirley (OUP)
Sponsored by the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC)
James Shirley (1596-1666) is a Caroline writer in the tradition of the great Elizabethans and Jacobeans. An innovative dramatist specializing in tragedy, comedy, tragicomedy, masque, pastoral, entertainment, morality, and neo-miracle, Shirley wrote for a wide variety of theatres, ranging from the Blackfriars to the first public playhouse in Dublin, but he also composed poems and grammars. Shirley’s strong female characters prepared the ground for women on the Restoration stage. Critics still appreciate his elegant craftsmanship, his fast-paced, witty dialogues, and his detached portrayal of social manners. The Complete Works of James Shirley will comprise a corpus of around 50 works in 10 volumes, including plays, poems, and prose. The project is jointly directed by Prof. Eugene Giddens, Anglia Ruskin University, Dr Teresa Grant, University of Warwick, and Prof. Ravelhofer. It currently involves over thirty scholars from the UK, US, Germany, and South Africa. The Complete Works of James Shirley has had initial support from the British Academy. A major AHRC research grant (Principal Investigator: Prof. Ravelhofer) funded ongoing work on an old-spelling online edition as well as the OUP modern-spelling edition of Shirley's oeuvre. For details see the project website.
Review Articles
Barbara Ravelhofer has written many review articles in: Renaissance Quarterly, The Seventeenth Century, Kritikon, Internationales Archiv f. Sozialgeschichte der Literatur (IASL) and Atlantic Studies.
Research Groups
Editing, Bibliography and History of the Book
European Frontiers
Renaissance Studies
Romantic and Pre-Romantic Studies
Selected Publications
Authored book
Ravelhofer, Barbara. (2006). The Early Stuart Masque: Dance, Costume, and Music. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Chapter in book
Ravelhofer, B. (2015). Equestrian Ballet as a Representative of Cultural Change in Europe, c.1500-1700. In 'That I wished myself a horse': The Horse as Representative of Cultural Change in Systems of Thought. Fielitz, S. Heidelberg: Winter. 149-174.
Ravelhofer, B. (2012). Middleton and Dance. In The Oxford Handbook of Thomas Middleton. Taylor, Gary & Henley, Trish. Oxford: Oxford University Press. 130-147.
Ravelhofer, B. (2011). History and Story: Voivode Dracula in Fifteenth-Century German Manuscript, Print, and Oral Poetry. In English Language and Literature Studies: Image, Identity, Reality. Ed. Spremic, M. Belgrade: Faculty of Philology, University of Belgrade. 17-36.
Ravelhofer, B. (2010). 'Ancient Greece, Dance, and the English Masque'. In The Ancient Dancer in the Modern World: Responses to Greek and Roman Dance. Ed. Macintosh, Fiona. Oxford: Oxford University Press. 211-223.
Edited book
Ravelhofer, B. (2016). James Shirley and Early Modern Theatre: New Critical Perspectives. Abingdon, Oxon: Routledge.
Journal Article
Ravelhofer, Barbara. (2013). Censorship and Poetry at the Court of Charles I: The Case of Georg Rodolf Weckherlin. English Literary Renaissance 43(2): 268-307.
Ravelhofer, B. (2006). 'Non-Verbal Meaning in Caroline Private Theatre: William Cavendish's and James Shirley's The Varietie (c.1641)'. The Seventeenth Century. 21(2): 195-214.
Ravelhofer, B. (2005). 'Oral Poetry and the Printing Press in Byron's The Giaour (1813)'. Romanticism. 11(1): 23-40.
Ravelhofer, B. (2002). ‘“Beasts of Recreacion” Henslowe’s White Bears.’. English Literary Renaissance. 32(2): 287-323.
Ravelhofer, B. (2002). ‘Virtual Theatres’. Jahrbuch für Computerphilologie 4: 133-50.
Show all publications
Support Staff
Contact us
Related Links
Information for the Media
Publications
English Studies
About Us
Undergraduate Study
Postgraduate Study
Research
Staff
Events
Contact Us
The University
Home
About
Jobs
Contact Us
Visit us
What's On
News
Colleges
Academic Departments
Professional Support Services
Study with Us
Undergraduate
Postgraduate
International
Course Finder
Student Life
Business Services
Business Gateway
Contacts
Business Engagement
Consultancy
Research Commercialisation
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships
Analytical Services
Employing Durham Graduates
Our Research
Research Institutes
Research Centres
Centres for Doctoral Training
News and Events
Research Directory
Alumni
Benefits
Events
Login/Register
Volunteer
For Students
Student Gateway
Dialogue Signposts (student)
DUO
Student appeals, complaints and discipline
For Staff
Staff Gateway
Dialogue Signposts (staff)
Staff Directory
Updated: 21st June 2017
Comments & Questions
Charitable Status
Disclaimer
Trading Name
Cookie Policy