###AuthorName=Daniel Flannery
###AuthorTitle=Professor
###Affiliation=School of Applied Social Sciences
###Position=Director
##############################
Biography Curriculum Vitae Recent Publications Recent Grants
Daniel Flannery, PhD
Semi J. and Ruth W. Begun Professor
Director of Begun Center for Violence Prevention Research and Education
PhD, The Ohio State University
Jack, Joseph and Morton Mandel School of Applied Social Sciences
Mandel Center for Nonprofit Organizations
Room 220
Case Western Reserve University
11402 Bellflower Court
Cleveland, Ohio 44106
daniel.flannery@case.edu
About
Daniel Flannery is the Dr. Semi J. and Ruth Begun Professor and Director of the Begun Center for Violence PreventionResearch and Education at the Jack, Joseph and Morton Mandel School of Applied Social Sciences (MSASS) at Case Western Reserve University (CWRU). His primary areas of research are in youth violence prevention, the link between violence and mental health, and program evaluation.
Read full biosketch.
The Begun Center for Violence Prevention Research and Education
DANIEL J. FLANNERY, Ph.D is Director of the Begun Center. He has written articles for The New England Journal of Medicine and for Developmental Psychology and has published several books discussing topics such as school violence, violence and mental health, and violent behavior and aggression. His most recent book, Wanted on Warrants: The Fugitive Safe Surrender Program, chronicles Dan’s involvement in the United State Marshal’s Fugitive Safe Surrender Program. | Read More |

The Dr. Semi J. and Ruth W. Begun Center for Violence Prevention Research and Educationis a research center in the Mandel School of Applied Social Sciences at Case Western Reserve University. The Begun Center has a long record of applied community-based research, training, advocacy, and technical assistance over the past two decades.The Begun Center’s professional staff of 25 social scientists, some with a master’s degree, other with a Ph.D. in a wide range of disciplines including psychology, education, social work, sociology, anthropology, and criminal justice, includes nationally recognized scholars whose publications are well cited in research on exposure to violence, mental health, youth gangs, correctional management, and organizational culture. These researchers have experience in county, state, and federally funded research and evaluation projects, including large-scale multi-state and multi-county designs.
Recent Publications
Books
Presentations
Projects

Flannery, D.J. (In press).  Wanted on Warrants: The Fugitive Safe Surrender Program.  Kent, OH: Kent State University Press.
Brunell, A., Davis, M., Schley, D., Eng, A., Van Dulmen, M., Wester, K., & Flannery, D. (In press).  A new measure of interpersonal exploitativeness.  Frontiers in Personality Science and Individual Differences.
Baughman, M., Hussey, D., Flannery, D., & Jefferis, E. (In press). Adolescent delinquency and violent behavior.  In T. Gullotta & G. Adams, Eds., Handbook of Adolescent Behavioral Problems: Evidence-based approaches to prevention and treatment.  New York: Springer.
Kretschmar, J., Butcher, F., & Flannery, D. (In press).  Aspects of bullying and its relationship to suicide.  In Van Dulmen, M., Bossarte, R. & Swahn, M. (Eds.),  Developmental and Public Health  Perspectives on Suicide Prevention:  An Integrated Approach.  SkiKnow Press.
Mata, A., van Dulmen, M., Schinka, K., Swahn, M., Bossarte, R., & Flannery, D.J., (in press).  Extracurricular activity involvement is associated with adolescent suicidality through school belongingness.  Vulnerable Children and Youth Studies.
Flannery, D.J., van Dulmen, M.H., & Mata, A. (in press).  Developmental trajectories of exposure to violence.  In M.J. Delisi & K. Beaver (Eds.),  The life-Course of Antisocial Behavior:  Aggression to Delinquency to Crime.  Boston, MA:  Jones & Bartlett.
Flannery, D.J., Modzeleski, W., & Kretschmar, J. (2013).  Violence and school shootings. Invited Paper. Current Psychiatry Reports, 15, 331-337.
Kretschmar, J.M., Butcher, F., & Flannery, D. (2013).  An evaluation of the behavioral health/juvenile justice initiative.  Behavioral Health in Ohio—Current Research Trends, 1(2), 18-30.
Flannery, D.J., & Kretschmar, J. (2012).  Overview of Fugitive Safe Surrender:   Program description,  initial findings, and policy implications.  Criminology and Public Policy, 11, 433-435.
Flannery, D.J., & Kretschmar, J. (2012).  Fugitive Safe Surrender:  Program description, initial findings, and policy implications.  Criminology and Public Policy, 11, 437-459.
Kretschmar, J., & Flannery, D. J. (2011). Displacement and suicide risk for juvenile justice-involved youth with mental health issues. Journal of Clinical Child and Adolescent Psychology, 40, 797–806.
Flannery, D., van Dulmen, M. H., & Mata, A. (2010). Developmental trajectories of exposure to violence. In M.J. Delisi & K. Beaver (Eds.), Criminological theory: A life-course approach. Boston, MA: Jones & Bartlett.
Fleisher, M. S., & Flannery, D. J. (2010). Harm reduction strategies within multi-cultural schools. In S. Uludag, C. Dogutas, O. Dolu, & H. Burker (Eds.), Children at risk and in need of protection: Safe schools (pp. 205–224). Anakara, Turkey: TBMM Basimevi.
Listwan, S. J., Colvin, M., Hanley, D., & Flannery, D. J. (2010). Victimization, social support, and psychological well-being: A study of recently released prisoners. Criminal Justice and Behavior, 37, 1140–1159.
Seck, M., Singer, M., & Flannery, D. J. (2010). Psychological and social characteristics of juvenile offenders with serious mental and behavioral disorders. Corrections Compendium, 35(1),1–7.
Flannery, D., Singer, M., van Dulmen, M., Kretschmar, J., & Belliston, L. (2009). Exposure to violence: Mental health and violent behavior. In. D. Flannery, A. Vazsonyi, & I. Waldman (Eds.), The Cambridge Handbook of Violent Behavior & Aggression (pp. 306–321). New York, NY: Cambridge University Press.
Van Dulmen, M., Goncy, E., Vest, A. & Flannery, D., (2009). Group-Based Trajectory Modeling of Externalizing Behavior Problems from Childhood through Adulthood:  Exploring Discrepancies in the Empirical Findings.  In J. Savage (Ed.), The Development of Persistent Criminality (pp. 288–314). New York, NY: Oxford University Press.







In the News

Rape Kit Research at Begun Center to Expand with $858K from U.S. Department of Justice
Jan 5 2017
A Mandel School research project that has become a national model for helping reshape how sexual assaults are investigated and prosecuted—including cases borne from rape kits 20-plus years old—will receive $858,324 from two new grants from the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ).
Since 2014, researchers from the Begun Center for Violence Prevention Research and Education at the Mandel School at Case Western Reserve University have teamed with the Cuyahoga County Prosecutor’s Office to test and study data from Northeast Ohio’s more than 5,000 unsubmitted rape kits from between 1993 and 2009.
As a result, the effort—known as the Cuyahoga County Sexual Assault Kit Task Force—has led to 527 indictments and 219 convictions (with a 93 percent conviction rate), so far. A third of the indicted are serial rapists.
The two DOJ grants total $3 million to the task force. The smaller of the two grants—for $1 million—supports a first-in-the-nation initiative: a new three-year effort to conduct a census of felons who “owe” DNA to the national Combined DNA Index System (CODIS). In Ohio, law enforcement must swab DNA from every arrested and convicted felon, but collection has been inconsistent.
Once individuals missing from the system are identified, law enforcement will seek out their DNA; meanwhile, Begun Center researchers will provide protocols to other jurisdictions to aid in DNA collection efforts as well as prevent future failures in collecting “owed” DNA.
“With more DNA, we can see if rape suspects are linked to other assaults or crimes, which can give us a better idea of their behavior, which helps future investigations around the country,” said Rachel Lovell, PhD (pictured), a senior research associate at the Begun Center.
The new $2 million grant will fund efforts to investigate pre-1993 rape kits, yielding evidence from crimes that may fall outside the state’s statute of limitations for sexual assault. Still, even with those cases unprosecutable, the Task Force will re-engage with some of the victims, a process that seeks to empower them but is fraught with sensitivities.
“Victims may want to know who their rapist is and, for some, there could be value in knowing what happened to that person,” said Daniel J. Flannery, PhD, the Dr. Semi J. and Ruth W. Begun Professor at the Mandel School and director of the Begun Center. “Since this is uncharted territory, we will try to find the best approach.”
Researchers will also study non-forensic data in old case files to aid in identifying serial and unknown offenders, which could result in catching rapists at earlier stages.
“It doesn’t matter the age of the information,” Flannery said. “We still have responsibility to resolve those cases and learn lessons for the benefit of other jurisdictions.”
The findings are already guiding law enforcement beyond Cuyahoga County to focus on how to efficiently investigate and prosecute cases, recognize serial offenders and understand the positive economic impact of such efforts. Many jurisdictions are starting to test backlogged rape kits.
The Begun Center researchers have published a series of briefs available online detailing their results. Among their findings: serial sexual offenders are more common than previously thought, with 25 percent of indicted rapists linked to another reported sexual assault—crimes that could have possibly been prevented if each rape kit had been tested in a timely manner and led to a conviction, said Lovell.
The DOJ’s Bureau of Justice Assistance administers the grants, which are part of its National Sexual Assault Kit Initiative. The Begun Center’s research effort, known as the Cuyahoga County Sexual Assault Kit Research Project, will receive $858,324 from the new grants through 2019. That’s in addition to a 2015 DOJ grant of $486,426 that ends in 2018.
“We need to finish the job,” said Cuyahoga County Prosecutor Timothy J. McGinty, in a release from his office, “and these grants will help us do so.”
The Sexual Assault Task Force also includes the Cuyahoga County Sheriff’s Department, the Cleveland Division of Police Sex Crimes Unit, the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation and the Cleveland Rape Crisis Center.

Research Colloquium: Sexual Assault Kits – Changing What We Know About Rape
Oct 20 2016
Friday, October 28, 2016
Colloquium: 12:30 PM – 2:00 PM EDT
Meet the Speakers: 2:00 PM – 3:00 PM EDT
All are invited to attend the research colloquium, Sexual Assault Kits: Changing What We Know About Rape, at 12:30 to 2:00 p.m. EST on Friday, October 28, 2016, in room #108 of the Jack, Joseph and Morton Mandel Community Studies Center at 11402 Bellflower Road on the campus of Case Western Reserve University.
This FREE event includes lunch. 1.5 social work CEUs are available for in-person attendees ($10 for CWRU alumni; $25 for non-alumni). To attend online via livestream, click the livestream option when RSVPing and you will be provided a link as the date approaches. No CEUs are available for people who attend via live stream.
Sponsored by the Mandel School’s Office of Research Administration and the Doctoral Program, 2016-2017 Research & Training Colloquia are part of the Centennial Speaker Series and are “Featuring Our Own,” spotlighting the school’s own groundbreaking research.
COLLOQUIUM TOPIC
Starting in 2013, the Cuyahoga County Sexual Assault Kit (SAK) Task Force began investigating and prosecuting cases from approximately 5,000 previously unsubmitted SAKs from 1993 to 2010. For the Cuyahoga County SAK Pilot Research Project, a research team at the Begun Center at the Mandel School coded a random sample of 243 SAKs with completed investigations and either resulted in prosecution or were not pursued due to insufficient evidence. This presentation will provide an overview of the issue with unsubmitted SAKs, key findings from the research, and how these findings are being used to inform and reform rape investigations and prosecutions.
SPEAKERS
Rachel Lovell, PhD, Senior Research Associate, Begun Center for Violence Prevention Research and Education
Daniel Flannery, PhD, Semi J. and Ruth W. Begun Professor and Director of the Begun Center for Violence Prevention Research and Education
Misty Luminais, PhD, Senior Research Assocate and Project Coordinator, Social Justice Institute
STUDENT INFO 
Mandel School students receive 1.5 PD hours for attending (online and intensive weekend students who watch via livestream can receive 1.5 PD hours by submitting a brief summary to their field advisor). On-campus students can also visit with the speakers immediately following the colloquium.
For more details about this and other Mandel School Centennial Speaker Series events, visit http://msass.case.edu/Centennial
Questions? Please email MandelSchool@case.edu or call 216.368.2270

2016-2017 Research Colloquia Series Announced
Sep 8 2016
Elizabeth M. Tracy, PhD, Associate Dean for Research and Training at the Mandel School, announced the 2016-2017 Research and Training Colloquia. Part of the Centennial Speaker Series, this year’s colloquia will feature the Mandel School’s own groundbreaking research. The events are free, open to all, and include lunch. Those who want CEUs may purchase them ($10 for alumni; $25 for non-alumni). Students will receive PD hours for each colloquium and can visit with speakers immediately following their presentations.
All of the events are from 12:30 to 2:00 p.m. at the Mandel Community Studies Center (11402 Bellflower) Room 108 unless otherwise noted. The 2016-2017 colloquia are:
Longitudinal Study of Prenatal Cocaine Exposure:  Methodological Issues and Findings
Wednesday, September 21 | 12:30 p.m. – 2:00 p.m.  | Mandel Community Studies Center Room 115
Dr. Gale Richardson from the University of Pittsburgh will discuss the methodological issues involved in studying drug use during pregnancy at a Distinguished Lecture Series event on Wednesday, September 21, at 12:30 p.m. in Room 108 of the Mandel Community Studies Center. She will describe her longitudinal study of prenatal cocaine exposure and highlight some of the findings from this 25-year program of research.
Gale A. Richardson, PhD, is an Associate Professor of Psychiatry and Epidemiology at the University of Pittsburgh. Over an academic career spanning 30 years, she has published numerous peer reviewed articles on the developmental effects of prenatal cocaine, alcohol, and marijuana exposure and has an extensive record of NIH-funded research and training grants.
Career Trajectories for Women in Academic Research
As part of the Distinguished Lecture Series, Dr. Gale Richardson will meet with students, faculty and staff to describe her career trajectory in academic research and will lead an informal discussion on factors to consider in choosing a career path. This event is on Thursday, September 22, at noon to 2:00 p.m. at the Flora Stone Mather Center for Women at the Tinkham Veale University Center on campus.
Sexual Assault Kits:  Changing What We Know About Rape
Friday, October 28 | 12:30 p.m. – 2:00 p.m.
Starting in 2013, the Cuyahoga County Sexual Assault Kit (SAK) Task Force began investigating and prosecuting cases from approximately 5,000 previously unsubmitted SAKs from 1993 to 2010. For the Cuyahoga County SAK Pilot Research Project, a research team at the Begun Center at the Mandel School coded a random sample of 243 SAKs with completed investigations and either resulted in prosecution or were not pursued due to insufficient evidence. This presentation will provide an overview of the issue with unsubmitted SAKs, key findings from the research, and how these findings are being used to inform and reform rape investigations and prosecutions.
Featuring:
Rachel Lovell, PhD, Senior Research Associate, Begun Center for Violence Prevention Research and Education
Daniel Flannery, PhD, Semi J. and Ruth W. Begun Professor and Director of the Begun Center for Violence Prevention Research and Education
Misty Luminais, PhD, Senior Research Associate and Project Coordinator, Social Justice Institute
Medication-Assisted Treatment for Opioid Addiction:  A Remedy That Needs More Than Medicine
Friday, November 11 | 12:30 p.m. – 2:00 p.m.
A report of data from the Begun Center’s evaluation of certified drug courts in Ohio, a state that has realized large increases in opioid-related morbidity and mortality. Their sample of 404 drug court participants at intake suggests a variety of comorbid problems including mental illness, violence exposure, serious health risk behaviors and low educational, housing and employment statuses. The results will be discussed in the contexts of clinical programs and state/national policy.
Featuring:
Margaret Baughman Sladky, PhD, Senior Research Associate, Begun Center for Violence Prevention Research and Education
Mark Singer, PhD, Leonard W. Mayo Professor of Family and Child Welfare and Deputy Director of the Begun Center for Violence Prevention Research and Education
Use of Community Data by Nonprofits:  Opportunities and Challenges
Friday, January 27 | 12:30 p.m. – 2:00 p.m.
Nonprofit organizations strive to build and serve the community in a variety of ways. A relatively new development to assist nonprofits with this critical task is the use of Geographic Information Systems (GIS) that incorporate data assembled from area nonprofit organizations. Based on in-depth interviews conducted with 18 sites in the U.S. that have adopted a prominent GIS application, this presentation explores the reasons why nonprofits adopt these systems, their inclusion of various stakeholders in their launch, and the challenges for sustaining GIS use.
Featuring:
Robert Fischer, PhD, Research Professor; Co-Director, Center on Urban Poverty and Community Development; Faculty Director of the Master of Nonprofit Organizations (MNO) Program.
Consensus-based Assessment Tool of Community Readiness and Capacity for Farmers’ Market Implementation
Friday, February 10 | 12:30 p.m. – 2:00 p.m.
Nutrition-related policy, system, and environmental (PSE) change interventions such as farmers’ markets have been recommended as effective strategies for promoting healthy diet for chronic disease prevention. Tools are needed to assess community readiness and capacity factors influencing successful farmers’ market implementation among diverse practitioners in different contexts. The goal of this presentation is to describe a multiphase consensus modeling approach used to develop a diagnostic tool for assessing community readiness and capacity to implement farmers’ market interventions among public health and community nutrition practitioners working with low-income populations in diverse contexts. Findings illuminate a range of implementation factors influencing farmers’ market PSE interventions and offer guidance for tailoring intervention delivery based on levels of community, practitioner, and organizational readiness and capacity.
Featuring:
Eun Lye Lee, PhD, Postdoctoral Scholar, Prevention Research Center for Healthy Neighborhoods, Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Medicine
Darcy Friedman, PhD, Associate Professor, Prevention Research Center for Healthy Neighborhoods, Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Medicine
Jarrod Dalton, PhD, Assistant Professor of Medicine, Cleveland Clinic Lerner College of Medicine
Navigating HIPAA, FERPA and the IRB:  Leverage Big Data to Better Serve Children and Families
Friday, February 24 | 12:30 p.m. – 2:00 p.m.
Integrated data systems (IDS) provide significant value for needs identification, program planning, and evaluation across a broad range of social issues. In this colloquium, we highlight lessons learned about the use of Protected Health Information (PHI) from two research studies: 1) a county-funded evaluation of early childhood mental health service receipt, and 2) a longitudinal analysis of the association between lifetime lead exposure and kindergarten readiness.
Featuring:
Elizabeth Anthony, PhD, Research Assistant Professor
Robert Fischer, PhD, Researcher Professor and Co-Director of the Center on Urban Poverty and Community Development
Cleveland Effective Neighboring Project
Friday, March 24 | 12:30 p.m. – 2:00 p.m.
“Effective neighboring” is the process of neighbors from diverse social, economic and cultural backgrounds, establishing a level of familiarity and shared expectations that enable them to live comfortably together. The goal of this project is to learn from existing examples of effective neighboring in Cleveland and determine how to promote and sustain it in more areas of our city and other cities.
Featuring:
Mark Joseph, PhD, Associate Professor; Director, National Initiative on Mixed-Income Communities
Mark Chupp, PhD, Assistant Professor; Director, International Education Program
  Jack, Joseph and Morton Mandel
School of Applied Social Sciences
Case Western Reserve University
11235 Bellflower Road
Cleveland, OH 44106-7164
216.368.1655
Email us
Request Info
Apply
Give
CWRU Links
Student Resources
Faculty Resources
Staff Resources
 