###AuthorName=
###AuthorTitle=
###Affiliation=
###Position=
##############################
Skip to main content
UC Home
Visit UC
Support UC►
Directories
UC Tools
About UC A&S
Programs & Degrees
Students
Departments
Faculty & Staff
Alumni & Friends
Giving
About the Department
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
People
Alumni & Friends
Research & Scholarship
Events & Seminars
Giving
People
Jump to:
Tenure-Track Faculty
Educator Faculty
Adjunct Faculty
Affiliate Faculty
Emeriti Faculty
Staff
Graduate Students
McMicken Professor
Tenure-Track Faculty
Biener, Zvi
Assistant Professor
261B McMicken Hall
513-556-6341
zvi.biener@uc.edu
I work primarily on early-modern conceptions of the unity of science and the large-scale structure of fields of knowledge. In particular, I am interested in how early-modern conceptions the unity of knowledge were used to justify the authority of philosophy over the physical sciences. This research consists of three overlapping areas: early-modern views regarding the reduction and dependence of branches of knowledge to/on one another, forms of demonstration and deduction in the new early-modern sciences, and the metaphysical underpinnings of those sciences.

When not an academic, I work on web-related projects or code, compile, and generally make a mess with programming languages. My computer concerns mirror my academic concerns: I like thinking about how knowledge is organized in the computer age, and spend way too much time exploring database and information management technologies.
  Carbonell, Vanessa
Obed J. Wilson Professor of Ethics | Ethics, Moral Psychology
206D McMicken Hall
513-556-6325
vanessa.carbonell@uc.edu
Vanessa Carbonell works at the intersection of ethical theory, metaethics, and moral psychology. She is particularly interested in moral agents (both ordinary and extraordinary) and how they navigate the moral landscape. This has led her to write about moral saints, moral motivation, moral sacrifice, and the relationship between knowledge and moral obligation. She also has research and teaching interests in bioethics and family ethics. For more information, including links to papers, visit Carbonell's personal website. 
Chemero, Tony
Professor of Philosophy and Psychology
McMicken Hall
513-556-6324
anthony.chemero@uc.edu
Tony Chemero got his Ph.D. in Philosophy and Cognitive Science from Indiana University in 1999.  From then to 2012, he taught at Franklin & Marshall College (F&M), where he was Professor of Psychology.  In 2012, he became Professor of Philosophy and Psychology at the University of Cincinnati. 
 
Tony’s research is both philosophical and empirical.  It is focused on questions related to dynamical modeling, ecological psychology, artificial life and complex systems. He is author of more than 70 articles and the book Radical Embodied Cognitive Science (2009, MIT Press), which was a finalist for the Lakatos Award.  His second book, co-authored with Stephan Kaufer, will appear on Polity Press.  He is currently editing the second edition of the MIT Encyclopedia of the Cognitive Sciences.

For more infomrmation, see Tony's pages at academia.edu or google scholar
Hardcastle, Valerie Gray
Professor of Philosophy, Psychology, and Psychiatry & Behavioral Neuroscience | Co-Director and Scholar-in-Residence, Weaver Institute for Law and Psychiatry | Director, Medicine, Health, and Society Program | Executive Director, UC LEAF | Affiliated Facu
201-A McMicken Hall
513-556-6334
valerie.hardcastle@uc.edu
An internationally recognized scholar, Valerie is the author of five books and over 150 essays. She studies the nature and structure of interdisciplinary theories in the cognitive sciences and has focused primarily on developing a philosophical framework for understanding conscious phenomena responsive to neuroscientific, psychiatric, and psychological data.  Currently, she is investigating the neuroscience of violence and its implications for both our understanding of human nature and the criminal justice system.  She is also trying to figure out whether notions of embodied cognition help or hinder theorizing about consciousness.

Most recently, Valerie has received research fellowships from the Medical Humanities Program at the University of Texas-Medical Branch, the Center for Mind, Brain, and Cognitive Evolution at Ruhr-University Bochum, and the Institute for Philosophy/School of Advanced Study at the University of London.  She received a bachelor’s degree with a double major in philosophy and political science from the University of California, Berkeley, a master’s degree in philosophy from the University of Houston, and an interdisciplinary PhD in cognitive science and philosophy from the University of California, San Diego.  
Jost, Lawrence J
Ethics, Ancient Philosophy, Marx
259A McMicken Hall
513-556-6324
lawrence.jost@uc.edu
Langland-Hassan, Peter M
Director of Undergraduate Studies | Philosophy of Mind, Philosophy of Psychology, Cognitive Science
206A McMicken Hall
513-556-6344
peter.langland-hassan@uc.edu
Langland-Hassan's research spans the philosophy of mind, the philosophy of psychology, and cognitive science.  Of particular interest to him are cognitive theories of imagination and pretense, the nature of visual imagery and inner speech, and the relation of imagery and imagination to self-knowledge and introspection.  His work has explored the ways in which introspective and imaginative capacities can become disrupted in psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia.  He was recently involved in an interdisciplinary study investigating the cognitive impact of inner speech deficits in people with aphasia.

Langland-Hassan arrived at UC in 2011 after spending two years as a Postdoctoral Researcher in the Philosophy-Neuroscience-Psychology program at Washington University in St. Louis.  He received his Ph.D. in philosophy in 2009 from The Graduate Center of the City University of New York, and his B.A. in philosophy from Columbia University in 1997.

More information is available on his personal website:  http://langland-hassan.weebly.com
Maglo, Koffi N.
Associate Professor of Philosophy
259C McMicken Hall
513-556-6337
koffi.maglo@uc.edu
Koffi N. Maglo received his BA degree from the University of Lomé in Togo. After obtaining MA and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Burgundy in France, he did postdoctoral studies at Virginia Tech in the US. He was a Visiting Assistant Professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, MIT, (2003-5). His interests include philosophy of biology and biomedicine, ethics and population health, philosophy of science, history of 17thand 18thcentury physics, African philosophy.
 
In the area of philosophy of biology and biomedicine, his work focuses on the ontological and epistemic status of population stratification concepts in genomics and evidence-based medicine, and on theoretical and ethical issues in personalized medicine. He currently leads collaborative interdisciplinary research projects on ethics and obesity research, and on race-based therapy.  He has previously organized in April 2007 an interdisciplinary symposium at the University of Cincinnati on “Race in the Age of Genomic Medicine: The Science and its Applications.” http://www.uc.edu/news/NR.asp?id=5592.
 
Koffi Maglo published also on the structure and developments of Newtonian mechanics and its reception across European scientific institutions. His publications include essays in recent French philosophy of science and on the French Enlightenment. At a more theoretical level, his research in the history of physics and in the philosophy of biology deals with questions about the reality, validity and utility of scientific notions.
  Maibom, Heidi Lene
Professor
McMicken Hall
513-556-6324
heidi.maibom@uc.edu
I work on issues in contemporary philosophy of mind, psychology, and cognitive science, for example: what is empathy and what is its moral relevance? how should we understand shame? how do we understand other minds? are psychopaths responsible agents? do you need to know what you are doing in order to be responsible for it? do judgments of right or wrong essentially spring from practical reason or emotion? are women better empathizers than men?
McEvoy, John
History, Philosophy and Sociology of Science and Technology, Marx, Foucault, Althusser
259D McMicken Hall
513-556-6338
john.mcevoy@uc.edu
Areas of Specialization

John McEvoy works in science studies and political philosophy. He has published extensively on the history and philosophy of science, focusing mainly on the Chemical Revolution, which occurred in the eighteenth century and is generally regarded as the origins of modern chemistry, and twentieth-century interpretations of this important event. He is currently working on more general issues pertaining to the historiography of science and is keen to show how the discipline of the history of science is shaped by wider philosophical and cultural influences. McEvoy also teaches political philosophy, focusing on the classical texts of Marx and Engels and the twentieth-century writings of the Frankfurt School, Foucault, and Althusser. He also teaches courses on the philosophy of technology and the historical and philosophical relations between magic, science, and the occult. His analysis of the 'history of the history of science' since World War Two is available in The Historiography of the Chemical Revolution: Patterns of Interpretation in the History of Science (London: Pickering and Chatto, 2010).
Polger, Thomas W.
Department Head | Philosophy of Mind, Metaphysics, Philosophy of Science
206B McMicken Hall
513-556-6324
thomas.polger@uc.edu
Areas of Specialization

Thomas Polger's research is located at the intersection of contemporary philosophy of mind with metaphysics and philosophy of science. His work is organized around the long-term project of exploring how to understand conscious experience as a natural feature of biological organisms. Among his interests are the metaphysics of experience, the role of evolutionary theory in thinking about minds, the nature of color vision, and the relation between psychological explanations and those in biology and the neurosciences. He is also interested in metaphilosophical issues concerning naturalism and philosophical methodology.
Potochnik, Angela
Associate Professor; Director of Graduate Studies
206C McMicken Hall
513-556-6340
angela.potochnik@uc.edu
Potochnik's research interests include philosophy of biology, philosophy of science, and history of logical empiricism.  She is especially focused upon the methodology of population biology; the role of idealized models in biology and science more generally; the properties of scientific explanations; how gender and other social factors influence science; and the work of Otto Neurath. 

Visit Potochnik's website.  
Richardson, Robert C.
Charles Phelps Taft Professor | Philosophy of Biology, Philosophy of Science, Cognitive Science
260 McMicken Hall
513-556-6324
robert.richardson@uc.edu
Dr. Robert C. Richardson is the Charles Phelps Taft Professor of Philosophy in the McMicken College of Arts & Sciences at the University of Cincinnati. He is a fellow of the AAAS, and a fellow in the Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati. He earned hs B.A. magna cum laude from the University of Colorado (1971) and his M.A. and Ph.D. with homors from the University of Chicago (1977). He has held numerous visiting appointments including, most recently, as Gervinus Fellow at the Universität Osnabrück (2008-2009), as a Mercator professor of Cognititve Science, Universität OsnabrUuck (2005), and Visiting Research Professor in the Department of Molecular Cell Physiology, Free university of Amsterdam (1993-94). Professor Richardson is the author of Discovering Complexity: Decomposition and Localization as Strategies in Scientific Research (Princeton 1993) considered a seminal work in the area of philosophy of science and biology, and of Evolutionary Psychology as Maladapted Psychology (MIT 2007). He is the author of over eighty academic articles in the areas of philosophy of science, cognitive science, philosophy of ecology, history of biology (19th century), philosophy of the mind, and the history of psychology. Professor Richardson has received awards and grant support from the National Science Foundation, National Research Council, National Endowment for the Humanitites, and the Hanse Institute for Advanced Study in Delmenhorst, Germany and serves on numerous editorial boards for academic journals and presses. In the near three decades of service to the University of Cincinnati, Professor Richardson has served two terms as Head of the Department of Philosophy, several terms as Director of Graduate Studies, and as a member of the Charles Phelps Taft Faculty Executive Board as well as Taft standing committees.
Skipper, Jr., Robert
History and Philosophy of Biology, Philosophy of Science, Evolutionary Theory
206B McMicken Hall
513-556-6336
robert.skipper@uc.edu
Robert Skipper received the PhD in Philosophy in 2000 from the Committee on the History and Philosophy of Science at the University of Maryland, College Park. He came to Cincinnati in 2001-2002.

Skipper's research has focused on the origins and development of evolutionary genetics and particularly the founders of population genetics. He also has interests in general philosophy of science as well as environmental ethics, law, and policy.

During the 2014-2015 academic year, Skipper will be teaching:

PHIL 1000, "Introduction to Philosophy"
PHIL 7062, "Philosophy of Biology"

More information can be found at Skipper's website.
Educator Faculty
Allen, Timothy W.
Social and Political Philosophy, Democratic Theory, Ancient Philosophy, Philosophy of Law, Critical Thinking, Existentialism, Business Ethics
261A McMicken Hall
513-556-6335
Adjunct Faculty
Martin, John
McMicken Professor Emeritus. Areas of Specialty: Formal Semantics, History of Logic, Environmental Ethics.
259B McMicken Hall
513-871-3460
john.martin@uc.edu
Areas of Specialization

Formal Semantics, History of Logic, Environmental Ethics

Click here for Martin's HOMEPAGE
Robinson, Jenefer Mary
Aesthetics, Philosophy of Psychology (emotion theory)
261C McMicken Hall
513-556-6324
jenefer.robinson@uc.edu
Jenefer Robinson teaches and writes on topics in aesthetics and philosophical psychology, especially the theory of emotion. Her book, Deeper than Reason (OUP 2005) applied recent advances in emotion theory to issues in aesthetics, such as the expression of emotion in the arts, how music arouses emotions and moods, and how the emotional experience of literature and music in particular can be a mode of understanding and appreciation. Jenefer is President of the American Society for Aesthetics. Her presidential address was about the role of emotional feelings in the appreciation of architecture. She is currently writing a book on emotion for OUP.

For more information, please see her personal website
Wilson, Stephen
Critical Thinking, Logic
259 McMicken Hall
513-556-6380
stephen.wilson3@uc.edu
Affiliate Faculty
Cahn, Steven J.
Associate Professor of Music Theory
4225G Emery Hall
513-556-7820
steven.cahn@uc.edu
Associate Professor Steven J. Cahn, PhD, is a music theorist and pianist whose research and specialized teaching areas include: 
  Schoenberg Studies/Twentieth-Century Music Theory
Neuroscience/Psychology of Music
Aesthetics, Hermeneutics & Theories of History
History of Music Theory
Musical Form in the 18th and 19th Centuries
Cultural Studies & Jewish Music Studies

His work appears in collections—Cambridge Companion to Schoenberg, Schoenberg and Words, Schoenberg: Interpretationen seiner Werke—and journals—Journal of the Arnold Schoenberg Center, Journal of the American Musicological Society, Opera Quarterly, Ostinato rigore. His collaborative research has been published in Cognitive Neuropsychology (DOI: 10.1080/02643294.2011.646972) and the Journal of the American Academy of Audiology (DOI: 10.3766/jaaa.24.1.6).

Cahn has received support from the Tangeman Sacred Music Center, the Dean’s Travel Fund, the National Institutes of Health — Lab for Integrative and Medical Biophysics, the National Endowment for the Humanities (Summer Stipend) and University Research Council, Faculty Research Support Grant. He has presented papers at international conferences including Jewishness and the Arts (Rome, 2015), Schoenberg at 140 (Canterbury, UK, 2014), Symposia of the Arnold Schoenberg Center (Vienna, 2001, 2002) and the Third International Conference on Jewish Music (SOAS, London 2000). In the U.S., he has presented papers at the Getty Center, the Library of Congress and the National Institutes of Health. He has also presented research at the annual meetings of the American Musicological Society, Society for Music Theory, Music Theory Midwest and International Conference on Music Perception and Cognition (ICMPC8). 

  Miller, Arnold I
Professor of Geology and Senior Associate Dean, McMicken College of Arts & Sciences
155A McMicken Hall
513-556-1019
arnold.miller@uc.edu
An evolutionary paleobiologist and paleoecologist, with research and teaching interests in biodiversity throughout geological time and in the present day. Current projects include the investigation of geographic and environmental selectivity during global mass extinctions and major diversification events; assessment of anthropogenic impacts on shallow-water molluscan communities as recorded in skeletal accumulations; numerical modeling of time-averaged fossil assemblages; and assessments of the distributions of animals and plants along present and past environmental gradients. 
Parr, Adrian
Professor and Director of The Charles Phelps Taft Research Center; Department of Political Science & School of Architecture and Interior Design; UNESCO Water Chair (PhD, Monash University)
1100C EDWARDS 1 Edwards Center
513-556-0675
parran@uc.edu
ADRIAN PARR PH.D

EDUCATION
PhD Monash University (AU) 2002 – Philosophy and Cultural Studies
MA Deakin University (AU) 2000 – Department of Politics & Philosophy
BA (First Class Honors Philosophy) Deakin University (AU) 1998
 
AREAS OF SPECIALIZATION
Cultural politics, environmental politics, political philosophy, feminist philosophy, water justice, contemporary continental philosophy.
 
CURRENT PROFESSIONAL AFFILIATIONS
Professor (Political Science and the School of Architecture and Interior Design)
Director of the Charles Phelps Taft Research Center & Chair of Taft Faculty, University of Cincinnati
Faculty – Environmental Studies, Political Science; Women’s, Gender, and Sexuality Studies; Philosophy; and Judaic Studies
UNESCO co-chair Water Access and Sustainability
Visiting Professorial Fellow – iCinema, the University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia
 
  Petren, Kenneth
Professor, Dean of A&S
155B McMicken Hall
513-556-5858
ken.petren@uc.edu
ECBR, Evolutionary ecology: Landscape genomics, migration, speciaiton, adaptation, invasive species, behavior, island systems, "ancient" DNA, vertebrates, Darwin's finches and lizards.
Riley, Michael A.
Professor
4150C EDWARDS 1 Edwards Center
513-556-5544
michael.riley@uc.edu
Michael Riley studies human perceptual-motor behavior from the perspectives of complexity science and ecological psychology. He has taught many undergraduate and graduate courses including Research Methods in Perception & Action, History of Psychology, Human Factors, and Control and Coordination of Action. His research is supported by the National Science Foundation.
Uetz, George W
Professor, Department Head
851f Rieveschl Hall
513-556-9700
george.uetz@uc.edu
ECBR, SBBE, Behavioral ecology, arachnology: multi-modal communication and sexual selection in wolf spiders; social behavior in colonial web-building spiders.
Emeriti Faculty
Faaborg, Robert Winslow
Emeritus
259D McMicken Hall
513-556-6338
robert.faaborg@uc.edu
Mullane, Harvey
Emeritus
513-489-1901
Seibert, Charles H
Emeritus
261 B McMicken Hall
513-385-1174
charles.seibert@uc.edu
Simons, Leo
Integration: default posi
513-821-7239
Todd, William L
513-556-6341
Workman, Rollin W
Emeritus
2416 French Hall
513-556-5863
rollin.workman@uc.edu
Taught philosophy at UC from fall 1958 to June 1988. Received the Cohen award for Excellence in Teaching and the Barbour Award for Student-Faculty relations. Secretary of the Cincinnati (Delta of Ohio) chapter of Phi Beta Kappa since 1970 something. Secretary of Omicron Delta Kapa honor society for 30 some years. Have taught a class each fall, winter, and spring terms in UC.s Institute for Learning in Retirement since spring 1990. Have volunteered in the A&S Student Affairs office since spring 1988. A 3-miles 3 times a week jogger since fall 1946--not up to today's standards but started long before all these new people started cluttering up the world.
Staff
Becker, Hannah
Grant Administrator 1 (NE)
401B Braunstein Hall
513-556-3480
hannah.becker@uc.edu
Bizzarri, Corina
Business Administrator
137A McMicken Hall
513-556-4440
corina.bizzarri@uc.edu
Kocani, Vesna
Financial Administrator 2
207 McMicken Hall
513-556-6329
vesna.kocani@uc.edu
Wallen, Alyssa
Program Manager (NE)
137 McMicken Hall
513-556-4440
alyssa.wallen@uc.edu
Graduate Students
Cartieri, Francis
MS Student 703A Rieveschl PhD Student 1337 Crosley
Species Delimitation, Evolutionary Theory, Philosophy of Biology
MS Advisor: Dr. Theresa Culley
PhD Advisor: Dr. Robert Skipper
Chang, Julia
Corris, Amanda Beth
Graduate Assistant
Ducey, Michael J
Faries, Frank
Graduate Assistant
I examine philosophical questions through the lens of the empirical sciences of the mind. Specifically, I am interested in the extent to which cognitive sciences, neuroscience, and psychology inform debates about things like attention, mental representation, computation, and the role of the brain in cognition.
Furlane, Kyle Keenan
Graduate Assistant
Gatyas, Maxwell Mountain
Graduate Assistant
Heydari Fard, Sahar
Graduate Assistant
Philosophy PhD student.
Huffman, Alex Alan
Graduate Assistant
Keating, Sean P.
Taft Graduate Assistant
1100N EDWARDS 1 Edwards Center
513-556-0675
sean.keating@uc.edu
Kunjukrishna Pillai, Mohan
Graduate Assistant
Martin, Jonathan D
Mazman, Ayca
Ayca Mazman's main areas of interest are philosophy of mind, naturalized epistemology and metaphysics of mind. She is also interested in feminist epistemologies especially Third World feminisms.  
McKinney, Jonathan Riley
Graduate Assistant
Parker, Christopher
Graduate Assistant
I do research in the philosophy of mind and psychology, especially the philosophy of psychopathology. My current research focuses primarily on the concept of mental illness, the classification of mental disorders, and the status of psychiatry as a branch of medical science.
Petrolini, Valentina
Graduate Assistant
I work mainly in Philosophy of Psychiatry, but my broad interests lie at the intersection between Philosophy of Mind and Epistemology.  

I am currently working on my dissertation under the supervision of Prof. Heidi Maibom, where I explore the notion of continuity between mental health and pathology. More specifically, I argue that mental disorders should be conceived as extreme variations of normal psychological phenomena. 

You can find more information about me here: 

http://valentinapetrolini.weebly.com
  Raja Galian, Vicente
Graduate Assistant
My main field of interest is cognitive science, its scope, and its interaction with scientific development and new technologies. Currently, I am focused both on ecological psychology and on different approaches to non-human cognition. Concerning ecological psychology, I am interested in concepts such as perceptual information or resonance. Also, I work on the dynamic systems approach to cognitive science. Within the field of non-human cognition I am working on the history and philosophy of cognitive ethology and plant signaling
and behavior.

https://uc.academia.edu/VicenteRaja
  Rogers, Eric S
Graduate Assistant
Eric S. Rogers is a philosopher of science and an evolutionary biologist. His major areas of interest are the philosophy of biology, general philosophy of science, and epistemology. His recent philosophical work centers on new approaches in the philosophy of science, process and pattern in multi-level selection, and issues pertaining to explanations, methods, and theories in invasion ecology. His biological work centers around historical ecology and principles of biological invasions.
Sanches de Oliveira, Guilherme
Graduate Assistant
My main research interests are in the history and philosophy of science, philosophy of mind and cognitive science. Within HPS, I have been drawn to philosophical issues arising from model-based reasoning in science, and to the history of conceptual and technological innovations in medicine and psychology. Within mind and cognition, I have been motivated by questions about agency, intentionality, belief and language, and particularly the compatibility of mindreading-based models of social cognition with theories of embodied, situated and extended cognition. Uniting these areas of inquiry, I am interested in how an ecological approach to cognition and reasoning can help make sense of the relationship between scientific and ordinary understanding as well as of the intersection of science and social values.
Spoor, Iris P
Stepanenko, Walter
Graduate Assistant
  Stephenson, Richard Javier
Graduate Assistant
My main areas of interest are the philosophy of biology, specifically with regards to systematics, paleontology and evolution; as well as the general practice of science and the role of interdisiciplinary research in science. 
Sutton, Quentin C
Interests focus on the cognition, perception, and metaphysics of artworks (especially film and music), the impact of technology and recording on art forms, trends in 20th Century epistemology and philosophy of science (especially empiricism, pragmatism, and naturalism), the comparative methods of philosophy and science, and visual and auditory perception generally.
Thornburg, Hayden
I am a philosopher working at the intersection of metaphysics, philosophy of science, philosophy of mind, and epistemology.  The subject of my current research is the concept of emergence as discussed in both the philosophical and scientific literature.  I think that philosophers and complexity scientists alike can benefit by being mutually informed.  My research project is interdisciplinary in nature and seeks to reconceive and clarify the notion of emergence so that it is both precise and useful for understanding metaphysical and scientific theories of emergence.
Van Wagner, Tracy
Asst Professor - Adj
BA MUNTZ
513-745-5645
tracy.vanwagner@uc.edu
My dissertation research is focused upon social cognition in autism spectrum disorders (ASD). I am interested in the similarities and differences in how individuals on the spectrum and typically-developed (TD) individuals engage in social interaction and cognition. I believe that a hybrid account that brings together insights from situated cognition and theory theory is the best approach to understanding the range and variety of social abilities, differences, and disabilities associated with ASD. I also hope to be able to make suggestions for interventions that will help individuals on the spectrum to better interact with TD individuals and that will help TD individuals to better interact with individuals on the spectrum. 
Willis, Matthew A
Graduate Assistant
McMicken Professor
Martin, John
McMicken Professor Emeritus. Areas of Specialty: Formal Semantics, History of Logic, Environmental Ethics.
259B McMicken Hall
513-871-3460
john.martin@uc.edu
Areas of Specialization

Formal Semantics, History of Logic, Environmental Ethics

Click here for Martin's HOMEPAGE
Robinson, Jenefer Mary
Aesthetics, Philosophy of Psychology (emotion theory)
261C McMicken Hall
513-556-6324
jenefer.robinson@uc.edu
Jenefer Robinson teaches and writes on topics in aesthetics and philosophical psychology, especially the theory of emotion. Her book, Deeper than Reason (OUP 2005) applied recent advances in emotion theory to issues in aesthetics, such as the expression of emotion in the arts, how music arouses emotions and moods, and how the emotional experience of literature and music in particular can be a mode of understanding and appreciation. Jenefer is President of the American Society for Aesthetics. Her presidential address was about the role of emotional feelings in the appreciation of architecture. She is currently writing a book on emotion for OUP.

For more information, please see her personal website
College of Arts & Sciences
155 B McMicken Hall | Cincinnati, OH 45221
Ph: 513/556.5860 | Fax: 513/556.3477 | webmaster@artsci.uc.edu
Alerts  Clery and HEOA Notice  Notice of Non-Discrimination  Copyright Information © 2017 University of Cincinnati
This website offers many PDF files for download, which require Adobe Reader to view.