###AuthorName=Prudence L Carter
###AuthorTitle=Professor
###Affiliation=Social Research Methodologies
###Position=Dean
##############################
Skip to main content
About
NewsResearch
Make A GiftJob OpportunitiesIntranet
Search form
APPLY
Get Started WHAT WE DO
Explore GIVE
Change A Life PEOPLE
Who We Are PROFESSIONAL PROGRAMS
K-12 Education





You are here
Home » Prudence L Carter
minimize
Prudence L Carter
Primary tabs
View
(active tab)
Track
Dean
Professor *
Ph.D., MPhil Sociology, Columbia University
M.A. Sociology and Education, Teachers College, Columbia University
Sc.B. Applied Mathematics & Economics, Brown University
Dean Prudence L. Carter is formerly the Jacks Family Professor of Education and Professor Sociology (by courtesy) at Stanford University. She was also the Faculty Director of John W. Gardner Center for Youth and Their Communities and the Director of the Research Institute for Comparative Studies in Race and Ethnicity. Prior to joining the Stanford faculty in 2007, Dr. Carter was Associate Professor of Sociology at Harvard University.
A product of public schools in the Mississippi Delta, Dr. Carter received a Bachelor of Science degree in applied mathematics and economics from Brown University; earned a Master of Art in Sociology and Education from Teachers College, Columbia University; and a Master of Philosophy and Ph.D. in Sociology from Columbia University.
Dr. Carter’s primary research and teaching agenda focuses on causes of and solutions to enduring social and cultural inequalities among social groups, especially in education and schooling. Her expertise ranges from issues of youth identity and race, class, and gender, urban poverty, social and cultural inequality, the sociology of education and mixed research methods. Specifically, she examines academic and mobility differences shaped by the effects of race, ethnicity, class, and gender in U.S. and global society. 
Dr. Carter’s award-winning book, Keepin’ It Real: School Success beyond Black and White (Oxford University Press, 2005), debates various cultural explanations used to explain school achievement and racial identity for low-income Black and Latino youth in the United States. Keepin’ It Real was recognized as the 2006 co-winner of the Oliver Cromwell Cox Book Award given by the American Sociological Association (ASA) for its contribution to the eradication of racism; a 2005 finalist for the C. Wright Mills Book Award, given by the Society for the Study of Social Problems; and an Honorable Mention for best book given by the section on Race, Class, and Gender of the ASA.
Her books include Stubborn Roots: Race, Culture, and Inequality in U.S. & South African Schools (2012) and Closing the Opportunity Gap: What America Must Do to Give Every Child an Even Chance (2013), co-edited with Dr. Kevin Welner — both published by Oxford University Press. Her other publications have appeared in various journals and book volumes. Her research has also been featured in the Pulitzer-Prize winning documentary “Mind the Gap: Why Are Good Schools Failing Black Students” by journalist Nancy Solomon and has been featured on dozens of National Public Radio (NPR) shows across the United States.
Dr. Carter is an elected a member of the National Academy of Education; the Sociological Research Association; and a Fellow of the American Educational Research Association (AERA). She also serves on the Board of Trustees for the William T. Grant Foundation in New York and was previously on the board of Coleman Advocates for Children and Youth in San Francisco.
Hide
Contact Info
CV: 
PrudenceCarterCV2016.pdf
Office: 
1501 Tolman Hall
Phone: 
(510) 643-6644
Email: 
gsedean@berkeley.edu
Staff Contact: 
Allyson C Cesario
Research
Selected Publications
(active tab)
Honors
Books
Carter, Prudence L. and Kevin G. Welner. Eds. (2013). Closing the Opportunity Gap: What America Must Do to Give All Children an Even Chance. New York: Oxford University Press.
Carter, Prudence L. (2012). Stubborn Roots: Race, Culture, and Inequality in U.S. and South African Schools. New York: Oxford University Press.
Carter, Prudence L. (2005). Keepin’ It Real: School Success beyond Black and White. New York: Oxford University Press.
2007 Distinguished Book Award, Honorable Mention, Race, Class, and Gender Section, American Sociological Association
2006 Oliver Cromwell Cox Book Award, American Sociological Association
2005 C. Wright Mills Best Book Award Finalist, Society for the Study of Social Problems
Peer-reviewed Journal Articles & Manuscripts
Carter, Prudence, Russell Skiba, Mariella Arredondo & Mica Pollock. (Forthcoming). You Can't Fix What You Don't Look At: Acknowledging Race in Addressing Racial Disparities. Urban Education.
Carter, Prudence L. (Forthcoming). “Educational Equality is a Multifaceted Issue: Why We Must Understand the School’s Sociocultural Context for Student Achievement.” Russell Sage Foundation Journal for Social Sciences.
Russell, Susan Garnett and Prudence L. Carter. (Under review). “When the Past is in the Present: The Paradox of Social Inclusion in South Africa and Rwanda.”
Carter, Prudence L. (2010). “Cultural Flexibility among Students in Different Racial and Ethnic School Contexts,” Teachers College Record 112(6): 1529-1574.
Carter, Prudence L., Jakeya Caruthers, and Jesse Foster. (2010). “Knowing Their Lines: How Social Boundaries Undermine Equity-based Integration Policies in U.S. and South African Schools,” Perspectives in Education, vol. 27(4): 351-364.
Carter, Prudence L. (2009). “Equity and Empathy: Toward Racial Achievement and Equality in U.S. Schools in the Obama Era,” Harvard Educational Review, vol. 79(2): 287-297.
Warikoo, Natasha and Prudence L. Carter. (2009). “Cultural Explanations for Racial and Ethnic Stratification in Academic Achievement: A Call for a New and Improved Theory,” Review of Educational Research, vol. 79(1): 366-394.
Carter, Prudence L. (2006). “Straddling Boundaries: Identity, Culture, and School.” The Sociology of Education, vol. 79(3): 304‐328.
Reprinted in Schools and Society: A Sociological Approach to Education, edited by Jeanne H. Ballantine and Joan Z. Spade. 3rd Edition. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, pp. 151-162, 2008.
The Structure of Schooling: Readings in the Sociology of Education, edited by Richard Arum, Irenee Beattie, and Karly Ford. 2nd edition. Belmont, CA: Sage Publications, Inc., pp.295-312, 2010.
Squires, Catherine, Laura Kohn Woods, Tabbye Chavous, and Prudence L. Carter. (2006). “Evaluating Responsibility and Agency in Gendered Violence: Black Youth Talk about Violence and Hip Hop.” Sex Roles, vol. 55 (11-12): 725-737.
Carter, Prudence L. (2004). “Beyond Ascription: Racial Identity, Culture, Schools, and Academic Achievement.” The Du Bois Review, vol. 1(2): 377‐388.
Carter, Prudence L. (2003). “Black Cultural Capital, Status Positioning, and the Conflict of Schooling for Low-Income African American Youth.” Social Problems, vol. 50(1): 136-155.
Carter, Prudence L., Catherine Squires, and Sherrill Sellers. (2002). “Reflections on Race/Ethnicity, Class and Gender Inclusive Research,” African American Research Perspectives, vol. 8(1): 111-124.
Neckerman, Kathryn, Prudence L. Carter, and Jennifer Lee. (1999). “Segmented Assimilation and Minority Cultures of Mobility,” Ethnic and Racial Studies, vol. 22(6): 945-965.
  National Academy of Education, Elected Member
Sociological Research Association, Elected Member
American Educational Research Association, Fellow
Cluster: 
Critical Studies of Race, Class, and Gender
Policy, Politics, and Leadership
Social Research Methodologies
Contact Us
Follow Us
UC Berkeley
UCB Graduate Division
Copyright ©2017 UC Regents. All rights reserved.   Background image: Steve McConnell / UC Berkeley