###AuthorName=Maria Runfola
###AuthorTitle=Professor
###Affiliation=Music Education
###Position=Associate Dean
##############################
Maria Runfola
Professor and Associate Dean for Academic Affairs
Music Education
Dean's Office
Learning and Instruction
Address: 502 Baldy Hall
Phone: 716-645-4033
Fax:  716-645-3161
Email: runfola@buffalo.edu


Areas of Research Interest:
Child Singing Voice
Early Audiation Achievement
Impact of Music Learning on Kindergarten Readiness
Areas of Teaching Interest:
Curriculum and Assessment
Music Learning Theory and Related Topics
Philosophical, Historical, Sociological Foundations of Music Education
Developmental Characteristics of Music Learning
Jump to Publications
Bio
Educational Background
Ph.D.
University at Buffalo, Music Education, 1976
Ed.M.
University at Buffalo, Music Education, 1971
B.F.A.
University of Buffalo, Music Education, 1962
Nazareth College of Rochester, Music Performance (piano), 1958-1960
Additional Study:
Eastman School of Music, Music History and Theory, 1974-1976
Nazareth College of Rochester, Music Performance (piano), 1958-1960
Professional and Research Interests
Developmental Music Aptitude
Standards Based Assessment in the Arts
Early Childhood Arts Education
Awards
PKL (Pi Kappa Lambda) Music Honor Fraternity
Education Citation Award, National Columbus Day Committee
Outstanding Service Award, Villa Maria College
Dean’s Apple Award for Outstanding Service to GSE
Outstanding Service to Music Education Award – Buffalo Philharmonic Orchestra and the Erie County Music Administrators
Related Links
Summer Music Education Institute
MusicPlay
Gordon Institute of Music Learning

Publications
In Progress
Etopio, E. & Runfola, M. The magic of music: Music activities for pre-K (in preparation). Book to be submitted to G.I.A. Publications following further revision pending a successful grant.
Runfola, M., & Etopio, E. The nature of pre-K students’ singing voices: Characteristics and assessment. (in preparation). Intended for the Journal of Research in Music Education.
Etopio, E., Hamlen, K., & Runfola, M.re-K teachers’ perceptions of their musicianship and their ability to implement an educationally appropriate music curriculum. Intended for the Journal of Research in Childhood Education.
Etopio, E., & Runfola, M. Pre-K teachers’ use of music and movement in early childhood settings. (in preparation). Intended for the Journal of Research in Childhood Education.
2012
Runfola, M., Etopio, E., Hamlen, K., & Rozendal, M. (2012). An experimental study to determine the effect of systematic developmentally appropriate music instruction on music skill development and emergent literacy development. Bulletin of the Council for Research in Music Education, 192, 7-27.
2011
Runfola M., & Etopio, E. (2011). Initial development of a measure to capture young children’s emergent audiation. Audea, 15(2), 3-10.
2010
Runfola, M. & Rutkowski, J. (Eds.). (2010). TIPS: The child’s singing voice. 2nd edition. New York: Rowman and Littlefield, Inc.
2009
Runfola, M., & Etopio, E. (2009). The nature of performance-based criterion measures in early childhood music education research and related issues. In T. Brophy (Eds.), Proceedings of the 2009 international symposium in assessment in music education. Chicago, IL: GIA Publication Inc.
2005
Runfola, M. & Taggart C. C. (2005) Development and Practical Applications of Music Learning Theory. Chicago: GIA Publications, Inc.
2002
Runfola, M. (2002). Music learning theory. In K. Burns (Ed.), Women and music in America
since 1900: An encyclopedia (pp.447-451). Westport, CT: Greenwood Press.
Runfola, M., & Swanwick, K. (2002). Developmental characteristics of music
learners. In R. Colwell, & C. Richardson (Eds.), The new handbook of research
on music teaching and learning. New York: Oxford University Press.
Runfola, M. (2002, April). Developing standards-based assessments in music
and other arts for New York State students: The ASSETS project. MENC measurement
and evaluation SRIG newsletter. (by invitation)
2001
Runfola, M. & McDermott, N. (2001) Commencement general education level
Teacher's Manual: Music. Available from the New York State Education Department,
The University of the State of New York, Albany.
2000
Runfola, M. (2000) Commencement general education level scoring guide: Music.
Available from the New York State Education Department, The University of the
State of New York, Albany.
Presentations
2010
Runfola, M. (2012, December). Does Research Inform Practice in Music Education? Moderator, panel discussion at the NYSSMA Winter Conference, Rochester, NY.
Runfola, M. (2011, December). Student Achievement = APPR or Is it? Invited presentation at the NYSSMA Winter Conference, Rochester, NY.
Runfola, M. & Etopio, E. (2010, December). Preschool Music Experiences: A Positive Influence on Emergent Literacy. Research Poster presentation at the NYSSMA Winter Conference, Rochester, NY.
Co-presenter with Elisabeth Etopio. All work and no play in early childhood classrooms: Let kids be kids and both music and emergent literacy will be enhanced. Biennial Music Educators National Conference, Anaheim, CA. March 25-27, 2010.
2009
Co-Presenter with Elisabeth Etopio. Capturing Children’s Emergent Audiation Skill: The Development of a Performance Based Criterion Measures for Early Childhood Music Education Research. Second Gordon Institute for Music Learning International Conference, Winston-Salem, NC. August 12-13, 2009.
Co-Presenter with Elisabeth Etopio. The Nature of Performance-Based Criterion Measures in Early Childhood Music Education Research, and Related Issues. Second International Symposium on Assessment in Music Education. Gainesville, FL. April 15-17, 2009.
Co-Presenter with Elisabeth Etopio. The Role of Performance Based Criterion Measures in Early Childhood Music Education Research. Early Childhood Special Research Interest Group of MENC: The National Association of Music Educators. Newark, DE. January 15-17, 2009.
Runfola, M. & Etopio, E. (2009, December). Developing Teacher-Researcher Partnerships to Investigate Best Music Practice. Presentation at the NYSSMA Winter Conference, Rochester, NY.
2007
Co-Presenter with Patricia Chiodo. Audiation at the Philharmonic: Rethinking Audience Behavior at Professional Orchestra Youth Concerts. First Gordon Institute for Music Learning International Conference; Dayton, OH, 2007.
2006
Runfola, M. (2006, December). Final report on a 50 year evaluation of the New York State School Music Association. Paper presented to the New York State School Music Association, Rochester. Association of Childhood Educators International (ACEI) April 12, 2006, San Antonio TX. Musicianship of Pre-K Specialists: Moving beyond Do-Re-Mi, with Elisabeth Etopio and Karla Hamlen. San Antonio,
Runfola, M., Etopio, E., & Hamlen, K. (2006, April). Musicianship of pre-K specialists: Moving beyond Do-Re-Mi. Research presentation at the Association of Childhood Educators International San Antonio TX.
Runfola, M. (2006, December). Final report on a 50 year evaluation of the New York State School Music Association. Paper presented to the New York State School Music Association, Rochester. Association of Childhood Educators International (ACEI) April 12, 2006, San Antonio TX. Musicianship of Pre-K Specialists: Moving beyond Do-Re-Mi, with Elisabeth Etopio and Karla Hamlen. San Antonio,
2005
Graduate School of Education's Continuing Professional Education Breakfast Lecture Series (K-12), December 8, 2005, Buffalo, NY.Developmentally Appropriate Music For Pre K & K: More Than Just A, B, C, with Elisabeth Etopio and Karla Hamlen. GSE
2002
Runfola, M. & (LAI early childhood doctoral student) Etopio, E. (2002,
April). Music-The universal language: Songs without words. Presentation at the
meeting of the Association for Childhood Education International, San Diego,
CA.
2001
Runfola, M., Marschilok, E., & McDermott, N. (2001, March). Developing
standards-based arts assessments: The New York State model. Presentation at
the meeting of the Music Educators National Conference, Pittsburgh, PA.
Childress, J., Colletti, K., Hyndman, R., Koyanagi, K., Marschilok, E. Nelli,
G., Runfola, M., (2001, June). Assessing the arts authentically. Presentation
at the meeting of the Council of Chief State School Officers, Houston, TX.
Runfola, M. (2001, April) Writing document based questions for arts assessment.
A presentation sponsored by the New York State Alliance for the Arts, Rochester
NY.
Runfola, M. (2001, April) Are my rubrics fair: Investigating the reliability
and validity of teacher written rubrics. A regional staff development workshop
sponsored by Erie One BOCES, Buffalo, NY.
Runfola, M. & Siskar, J. (2001, April) The New York State arts assessment
sampler. A regional staff development workshop sponsored by Erie One BOCES,
Buffalo, NY.
2000
Runfola, M. & McDermott, N. (2000, August) How to prepare your students
for the State arts assessments. New York State School Music Association Summer
Conference, Albany, NY.
Runfola, M. & McDermott, N. (2000, December) The performance portfolio
in music: Required tasks with options. New York State School Music Association
Winter Conference, Rochester NY.
Runfola, M. & Siskar, J. (2000, December) Standards and assessments in
the Arts: New York State initiatives. Sponsored by the Center for Continuing
Professional Education, SUNY Buffalo.

Grants
2002-2005
Improving the Musicianship of Early Childhood Specialist Teachers and Examining the Impact of Their Musicianship on Students' Music Achievement and Emergent Literacy. National Endowment for the Arts; Principal Investigator.
GSE Envisioning
Mission
Facts
History
GSE Directory
GSE Faculty & Staff Openings
Social Media
♫ Summer Music Education Institute

Information & Registration >
New Online Programs
Master's Degrees & Certificates
Diverse Student Population
Experienced Faculty. read more >
Non-Matriculated Courses
Latest in teaching, educational administration, counseling, and information science. read more >
Prospective Students
Undergraduate Students
Current Students
Online Students
Non-Matriculated Students
Alumni & Friends
UB Graduate School of Education
       APPLY NOW SUPPORT US
DEPARTMENTS & CENTERS
HOME
ABOUT US
FACULTY & RESEARCH
ADMISSIONS
ACADEMIC PROGRAMS
CONTINUING EDUCATION
GSE Home
About Us
GSE Directory
Faculty Directory
Maria Runfola
Home
University at Buffalo
Financial Aid
New Student Road Map
UBlearns
MyUB
GSE News
Resources for Faculty & Staff
Site Map
Legal Notices
Contact Us
© 2017 Graduate School of Education, University at Buffalo. All rights reserved.