###AuthorName=CHUNFEN SHAO
###AuthorTitle=DR
###Affiliation=Department of Japanese Studies
###Position=Lecturer
##############################
LibraryCurrent studentsStaff Intranet
The University of Sydney
Department of Japanese Studies
Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences
University Home
Contacts
Refine search
Faculty of Arts
Faculty of Arts
University of Sydney
University of Sydney
All University websites
Library catalogue
Research opportunities
Staff directory
Courses
Researcher
About Us
Staff
Research
Undergraduate Study
Postgraduate Coursework
Overview
Postgraduate Research
Student Resources
Prizes and Scholarships
Contact Us
You are here: University of Sydney / Faculty of Arts and Social Science / Department of Japanese Studies /Academic Staff / Dr Chunfen Shao 
STAFF
Academic Staff
Academic Coordinators
Honorary Associates
SEARCH PAGE
DR CHUNFEN SHAO
PhD (Tokyo Metropolitan University); MS (Tokyo Metropolitan University); BA (Hokkaido University).
Lecturer
Member of China Studies Centre
A18 - Brennan MacCallum Building
The University of Sydney
Telephone +61 2 9351 4570
Email chunfen.shao@sydney.edu.au
Map
Map data ©2017 Google
Terms of Use
Report a map error
Map
View in larger map
Biographical details
Dr ChunFen Shao is a sociologist, with research interests in globalization, urbanization, international migration, migration and development, multiculturalism and transnationalism. After studying political economy at the Nanjing University, China, Dr Shao was awarded Chinese National Scholarship to study abroad. She spent eleven years in Japan to study sociology, and took BA from Hokkaido University, MS and PhD from Tokyo Metropolitan University, Japan. She started to teach at the University of Sydney in 1993 and has taught a wide range of courses in Japanese society, business, culture, and Japanese language at both the undergraduate and graduate levels. She has held a Fellowship at the Tokyo Woman’s Christian University, Japan (1998) and was a Visiting Scholar at the University of Tokyo, Japan (2001-2002). She was an APRU fellow at UCLA, U.S.A. and the Peking University, China (2001).
Back to Top
Research interests
International migration
Globalization, social mobility, multiculturalism and transnationalism
Chinese Diasporas
Asian migrants in Australia and Japan
Sino-Japanese international relations
Comparative study of Asian societies
Family, gender, aging, education, class, equality, diversity, ethnicity, identity, community
Back to Top
Teaching and supervision
International migration and globalization
Migrants in Australia, Japan and China
International students
Chinese in overseas
Japanese economy, society and culture
Chinese economy, society and culture
Sino-Japanese international relations
Japanese language
Back to Top
Current projects
Comparative Studies on New Migrants in America, Australia, Japan and the UK
Making Migrant Spaces in Sydney
Is Japan an Immigrant Country? A Comparative Study of Immigrants’ Citizenship and Belonging in Japan and Australia
Back to Top
Selected publications
Download citations: PDF RTF Endnote
By type
By year
Expand all
Book Chapters
Shao, C. (2014). Chinese Elites Migrating to Australia: Reality, Impact and Future Trends. In Huiyao Wang and Guofu Liu (Eds.), Annual Report on Chinese International Migration (2014), (pp. 156-172). Beijing: Social Sciences Academic Press.
Shao, C. (2014). Chinese Migration to Japan, 1979-2010: Patterns and Policies. In Jijiao Zhang, Howard Duncan (Eds.), Migration in China and Asia: Experience and Policy, (pp. 175-187). Dordrecht: Springer.
Shao, C., Lu, D. (2014). The Chinese Community in Japan: Past and Present. In Editorial Committee of the 9th International Symposium (Eds.), Japanese Language Education and Japanese Studies: Interactivity, Praxis, and Possibilities, (pp. 765-779). Tokyo: COCO Shuppan.
Shao, C. (2014). The New Trend in Chinese Migration to Japan. In Huiyao Wang and Guofu Liu (Eds.), Annual Report on Chinese International Migration (2014), (pp. 173-190). Beijing: Social Sciences Academic Press.
Shao, C. (2013). Are They Chinese or Foreigners: New Migrants from Mainland China. In Liu Guofu, Liu Zongkun (Eds.), Exit and Entry Administration Law and International Migration, (pp. 302-319). Beijing, China: Law Press China.
Shao, C. (2011). From International Students to Immigrants: A Japanese Case. In Zepeng Liu (Eds.), Interaction and Innovation: Multidimensional Perspectives in Chinese Overseas Studies, (pp. 386-408). China: Guangxi Normal University Press.
Shao, C. (2009). Chugokujin Ryugakusei to Shakai Hatten (Chinese International Students and Social Development). In Yorozu Miho, Murakami Fuminobu (Eds.), Guroubaru-ka shakai no nihongo kyoiku to Nihon bunka [Japanese Language Education and Japanese Culture in the Globalization Society], (pp. 72-94). Tokyo, Japan: Hitsuji Shobo.
Show 4 more
Journals
Shao, C. (2009). The Think-tank of Social Development and Bridge of China-Japan Exchange: The Association of Chinese Professors in Japan. Journal of Ethnic Chinese, 1(June 2009), 20-24.
Shao, C. (2007). Residential Choices Made by Chinese Government Funded Undergraduate Students Studied in Japan. Nihon Gakkan (Journal of Japanese Studies), 11, 21-30.
Conferences
Shao, C. (2010). Globalization and social mobility: Chinese student immigrants in Japan. 18th Biennial Conference of the Asian Studies Association of Australia (ASAA), Adelaide: Asian Studies Association of Australia (ASAA).
Shao, C. (2008). International students and Chinese society in Japan. 7th International Symposium on Transformation and Challenges of Japanese Studies and Japanese Language Education in the Asia Pacific Region, Hong Kong: Society of Japanese Language Education.
Shao, C. (2008). Japanese policies and international students in Japan. The 17th Biennial Conference of the Asian Studies Association of Australia (ASAA), Australia: Monash Asia Institute.
Back to Top
For support on your academic profile contact Research Support.
© 2002- 17 The University of Sydney. Last updated:  11 April 2013
ABN: 15 211 513 464. CRICOS number: 00026A. Phone: +61 2 9351 2222.
Authorised by: Dean, Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences..
Contact the University | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
Glossary | Abbreviations | Web Feedback