Menu
Search
Deakin University Australia
Home
Courses
Courses
Find a course
Study online
How to apply
Key dates
Entry pathways
Credit for Prior Learning
Fees
Scholarships
Institute of Koorie Education
Locations
Locations
Melbourne Burwood Campus
Geelong Waurn Ponds Campus
Geelong Waterfront Campus
Warrnambool Campus
Cloud Campus
Research institutes and centres
Deakin learning centres
Deakin corporate centres
China Office
Indonesia Office
South Asia Office
Life at Deakin
Life at Deakin
A day in the life
Why study at Deakin
Student life
Accommodation
Support services
Orientation and getting started
Graduations
Alumni
Alumni
Update your details
Alumni benefits
Webinars and resources
Alumni publications
Chapters and networks
Alumni Award Winners
Deakin Alumni Awards 2017
Where are they now?
Graduate documents
Volunteering
Contact us
Research
Research
Improving health and wellbeing
Designing smarter technologies
Enabling a sustainable world
Advancing society and culture
Research and industry
Institutes and centres
Find a researcher
Become a research student
Support for researchers
Research integrity
Research news
About Deakin
About Deakin
News
Events
Media releases
Strategic direction
Reputation
Values
Teaching and learning
Leadership and governance
Faculties and divisions
Work at Deakin
Collaboration
Collaboration
Industry and business
Community engagement
Vice-Chancellor's message
International partnerships
University partnerships
Giving to Deakin
Giving to Deakin
Why give to Deakin?
Ways to give
Our supporters
Give to Deakin now
Contact us
Contact us
International Students
Career practitioners
Library
Staff
Current students
Contact Deakin
My courses
0
Research at Deakin
Discover the world-class research and state-of-the-art facilities at Deakin.
Our researchers discover innovative solutions to real issues facing the world. Research at Deakin is divided into four themes that advance knowledge, better humanity and preserve our planet.
Improving health and wellbeing
Covering the broad spectrum of health, Deakin research is helping to improve the health and wellbeing of people all around the world.
FIND OUT MORE
Designing smarter technologies
Be it robotics, big data or composite materials, Deakin researchers are solving 21st century problems with the aid of cutting-edge, smart technologies.
FIND OUT MORE
Enabling a sustainable world
Through every project and program, Deakin research is driving outcomes that provide solutions to global environmental and sustainability issues.
FIND OUT MORE
Advancing society and culture
Deakin’s strong research focus on contemporary histories, heritage, society and international development is achieving global outcomes.
FIND OUT MORE
Research and industry
Our world-class R&D capabilities make a real difference to industries as diverse as health, engineering, machine learning, artificial intelligence, IT and renewable energy.
From big companies to small, we can help you grow your idea from a concept to reality, offering our expertise in a range of sectors and access to industrial scale infrastructure and funding and co-location opportunities.
Find out more about our research for industry
Deakin Invenio
Deakin's online research hub, Invenio, unveils the exceptional innovation and research being conducted through our world-class research institutes and strategic research centres.
Discover our latest achievements and how we're building Deakin's global research footprint across the four key themes.
Visit Invenio
Related news
Research news
Future Fellowship for ADI Professor
20 June 2017
Deakin's Professor Tim Winter has been awarded a prestigious ARC Future Fellowship
Research news
Islet transplantation: positive step for people with type 1 diabetes
19 June 2017
Professor Jane Speight has spoken on the benefits and issues of islet cell transplantation at the world's leading diabetes conference.
Research news
Collecting history
16 June 2017
A project investigating the history of collecting in Western Australia is turning up surprising finds around Australia and the world.
SEE MORE NEWS
Our researchers are making a positive impact – on the lives and wellbeing of people – not just in Australia, but around the world – through exceptional innovation and research.
PROFESSOR PETER HODGSON
DEPUTY VICE-CHANCELLOR RESEARCH
Become a research student
Join over 1700 research students in the Deakin community and you’ll enjoy state-of-the-art facilities and expert supervisors.
FIND OUT MORE ABOUT BECOMING A RESEARCH STUDENT
World-leading research
From economics and physical and mental health to molecular research and citizenship and globalisation, Deakin's well placed to provide world-leading research through high-quality, innovative facilities.
Explore our institutes and centres
Gender Equity in Research Policy
At Deakin we understand that being a researcher and a primary carer with responsibility for children, elderly or disabled relatives is often challenging.  Delivering high-quality research outputs can be restricted by a reduced capacity to attend conferences or taking periods of extended leave.
Our gender equity programs seek to address some of the known barriers to career progression.  This is by no means the end of our work.  Through the SAGE Athena SWAN pilot and other initiatives we will continue to find ways to increase diversity. At the same time we will put in place policies and practices that provide support to people of different ethnicities, genders, sexualities, age, and disabilities to feel included and to achieve their goals.
Our programs include:
Career Continuity in Research
Vice-Chancellor’s Support Fund
Achievement Relative to Opportunity
Keeping Connected
For more information about these programs and how to apply, please visit our staff wiki page (login required).
Follow us on social media
Keep up to date with the latest research on our social media channels.
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Contact us
Deakin Research Grants
+61 3 5227 2360 
Email Deakin Research Grants
Deakin Research Commercial
+61 3 5227 1135
Email Deakin Research Commercial 
Higher Degrees by Research - Candidature office
+61 3 924 45613
Email the HDR Candidature office
Higher Degrees by Research - Scholarships office
+61 3 5227 2146
Email the HDR Scholarships office
Deakin Research
General enquiries
+61 3 5227 2673
Email Deakin Research
Office of the Deputy Vice-Chancellor Research
General enquiries
+61 3 5227 2673
Email Office of the Deputy Vice-Chancellor Research
Office of the Deputy Vice-Chancellor Research
Deakin University
Locked Bag 20000
GEELONG VIC 3220
You might also like
prev slide
next slide
BECOME A RESEARCH STUDENT
Copyright
Disclaimer
Privacy
Sitemap
Jobs at Deakin
About us
Giving to Deakin
Emergency information
Contact us
Connect with us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
Explore
This
YouTube
weibo
We acknowledge the traditional owners of the lands on which Deakin University stands and we pay our respect.
© Copyright Deakin University 2016. Deakin University CRICOS Provider Code 00113B.