Skip to main content
MENU
Zhigang Suo
Allen E. and Marilyn M. Puckett Professor of Mechanics and Materials
Area Dean for Materials Science and Mechanical Engineering
Kavli Scholar, Kavli Institute for Bionano Science & Technology
Profile
Devices in modern technologies (e.g., microelectronics, MEMS, photonics, and biosensors) are integrated structures of diverse materials, complex architectures, and small feature sizes. Their function, fabrication, and reliability pose urgent mechanics problems. As the experimental and computational capabilities change drastically, the division of labor is shifting: What to understand? What to measure? What to compute? Suo and his students aim to create scientific models of small-scale processes that have significant engineering consequences. The following examples illustrate the promise of future growth in mechanics.
Mechanics of nanofabrication. Mass-producing nanostructures is a great challenge of our time. Several fabrication processes have recently shown astonishing capabilities. For example, nanoimprint has brought time-honored printing technology to such an exquisite size scale. Mechanics has long played significant roles in manufacturing, such as metal forming, ceramic sintering, and polymer molding. More recently, success stories have accumulated in applying mechanics to nanoscale fabrication. Examples include the stability of a strained thin epitexial film against dislocation injection, and strain-induced self-assembly of quantum dots. In collaboration with electrical engineers at Princeton University, Suo and his students have recently studied the mechanics of fabricating zero-defect, strain-free SiGe films on oxides. The research has led to great improvement of the fabrication process.
Mechanics of self-assembly. As photolithography reaches its limit of resolution, many alternative patterning technologies are under intense investigation. Among them are various processes of self-assembly. What are the forces that assemble these structures? What structures can be produced? Suo and his students are studying molecules adsorbed on a solid surface, forming a pattern of disks or stripes, of stable sizes on the order 1-100 nm. The simulation of the group has suggested experimental means to form a perfect periodic pattern or, more remarkably, desired aperiodic patterns. The group is also exploring means for programmable transport of functional molecules on a chip.
Mechanics of durability. Nearly all materials in the on-chip interconnect structure have been changed in recent years. The feature size has already gone below 100 nm. Temperature cycling has long been used as a test to qualify devices. After being cycled between two temperatures, say -55C to 125C for 1000 times, a device is tested for its function, and then sectioned and examined in microscopes for failure modes (e.g., distortion and cracking). If a failure mode is found, one makes a new device by modifying either processing parameters, or geometry, or materials. The new device is temperature cycled again, followed by the microscopy examination. These make-and-break iterations are extremely time consuming. Scientific understanding of this test is of great value. In collaboration with researchers at Intel Corporation, Suo group has identified a new failure mechanism, called ratcheting-induced stable cracking (RISC). The mechanism shows how, in an integrated structure, the cycling temperature gradually breaks a brittle solid.
Contact Information
Office: 309 Pierce Hall
Email: suo@seas.harvard.edu
Office Phone: (617) 495-3789
Assistant: LaShanda Banks
Assistant Office: Pierce Hall 318
Assistant Phone: 617/496-1461
Primary Teaching Area
Materials Science & Mechanical Engineering
Research Interests
Applied Mathematics
Modeling Physical/Biological Phenomena and Systems
Applied Physics
Solid Mechanics
Materials and Mechanical Engineering
Solid Mechanics
Education
B.S., 1985, Solid Mechanics, Xian Jiaotong University
Ph.D., 1989, Engineering Science, Harvard University
Websites
http://suo.seas.harvard.edu/
http://imechanica.org/
Open/Close All Sections
Positions & Employment
Other Experience & Professional Membership
Honors
Patents Awarded
RELATED NEWS
JUNE 1, 2016
Actuators inspired by muscle
AUGUST 29, 2013
Transparent artificial muscle plays Grieg to prove a point
SEPTEMBER 10, 2012
Nanshu Lu (Ph.D. '09), engineer of 'electronic tattoos,' named to TR35
SEPTEMBER 5, 2012
Tough gel stretches to 21 times its length, recoils, and heals itself
Search Directory
Area Deans
Faculty and Researchers by Interests
Send feedback on this page
Harvard Paulson School
29 Oxford Street
Cambridge, MA 02138
HARVARD UNIVERSITY
TRADEMARK NOTICE
PRIVACY POLICY
                    © 2017 President and Fellows of Harvard College
Faculty, Researcher, and Lecturer Positions - Postdoctoral & Fellowship Positions - Staff Positions