Skip to main content
MyUW
Calendar
Directories
Libraries
UW Medicine
Maps
UW Today
Helpful Links
Computing/IT
Employee Self Service
Husky Card
UW Bothell
UW Tacoma
UW Facebook
UW Twitter
University of Washington
w
Mechanical Engineering
ME_UW_noW
Open search area
thinstrip-search
MENU
PEOPLE
PeopleFacultyPer Reinhall
Per Reinhall
Professor
Department Chair
Director, Boeing Advanced Research Center
Adjunct Professor, Industrial & Systems Engineering

  reinhall@uw.edu
  206-685-6665
  MEB 143
Education
Ph.D. in Applied Mechanics, California Institute of Technology, 1982
M.S. in Applied Mechanics, California Institute of Technology
B.S. in Mechanical Engineering, University of Washington
Biography
Professor Reinhall is a world renowned expert in nonlinear dynamical systems, acoustics, and biomechanics with a focus on the development of biomedical devices. Over 15 years ago, he turned his attention to collaborative research with strong emphasis in the area of health. This led to several successful collaborations with the UW Medical School, the VA Hospital in Seattle and DC, and various non-profit and industrial partners such as Seattle Institute for Cardiac Research, Cardiac Science, and Medtronic. These collaborations resulted in research applications which include enhanced or new devices in the treatment of diabetes, cardiac arrhythmia and early detection of cancer. His collaborative research in non-biomedical areas includes manufacturing, noise and vibration control, and human-robotic interactions.
When Dr. Reinhall became Chair of Mechanical Engineering, his vision was to create large interdisciplinary collaborative research endeavors, placing the highest priority on research focused on health, energy and manufacturing. Drawing from his past collaborative experiences, he has worked to bridge the gap between Engineering and Medicine through establishing UW’s Engineering Innovation in Health Program, as well the Boeing Advanced Research Center, which focuses on automated assembly in confined space. His research discoveries have led to 24 patents and two UW startups: VICIS, and Marine Construction Technologies, which is developing a new pile design technology used in marine construction to lower the noise created during pile driving for the protection of aquatic wildlife. He is the CTO of both companies.
Faculty
Research interests
Dynamical systems
Fluid-structure interaction
Acoustics
Vibration and noise control
Biomechanics and medical devices
Courses taught
ME 495: Mechanical Engineering Design
UW College of Engineering coe-wordmark-centered
Be Boundless
Connect with us:
Facebook YouTube LinkedIn
College of Engineering Log in Sitemap MyME
Learn about our ABET Accreditation
© 2017 Mechanical Engineering | UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA