skip to primary navigation
skip to content
View menu
Search
Home
Study at Cambridge
Undergraduate
Graduate
International students
Continuing education
Executive and professional education
Courses in education
About the University
How the University and Colleges work
History
Visiting the University
Term dates and calendars
Map
For media
Video and audio
Find an expert
Publications
Global Cambridge
News
Events
Public engagement
Jobs
Give to Cambridge
Research at Cambridge
Give to Cambridge
For staff
For current students
For alumni
For business
Colleges & departments
Libraries & facilities
Museums & collections
Email & phone search
Log in
Department of Sociology
Menu
Home
About Us
Study Sociology
People
Research
Seminars
Undergraduates
Graduates
Jobs
Peter William Walsh
I am currently completing my PhD, Borderline Democracy: Reason, Power, and Executive Empire in the Struggle over Migration Policy. The thesis advances an explanation of the development of the UK’s Immigration Act 2014, and is based on the analysis of documentary, policy, and media sources, as well as interviews I conducted with key immigration policy stakeholders, including government ministers and lobbyists. Its findings suggest that the former Coalition Government sought to show that they develop immigration policy in a democratic way and for rational policy- and evidence-based reasons. However, the Act was also made for political reasons, and shaped by a Westminster elite, who appeared to ignore evidence and sound arguments contrary to their position, whilst using ‘democracy’ and ‘evidence-based policy’ as rhetorical devices to enhance the legitimacy of their decisions.
I have recently become interested in the phenomenon of celebrity within academia, and am currently co-authoring an article on the subject with David Lehmann.
I am also finishing my first book, From Financial Crisis to Social Change, to be published in 2017 by Palgrave Macmillan. The book is co-edited with Torsten Geelan and Marcos Gonzalez Hernando, with a preface by Göran Therborn, and chapters by nine contributors. It is based on a selection of papers presented at the Department of Sociology’s 2014 Graduate Conference, Crisis and Social Change: Towards Alternative Horizons. A work of utopian sociology, the book proposes bold responses to the North Atlantic financial crisis of 2007-8.
Research/teaching interests
Contemporary social and political theory; evolutionary psychology; immigration; social policy; the 2007-8 global financial crisis; utopian sociology; academic celebrity; plagiarism.
Education
PhD in Sociology, University of Cambridge, 2012-16
MPhil Modern Society and Global Transformations, University of Cambridge, 2011-12
BA Social and Political Sciences, University of Cambridge, 2007-10
E-mail: pww28@cam.ac.uk
Address: Department of Sociology, Free School Lane, Cambridge CB2 3RQ
Supervisor: Dr Jeff Miley
College: Fitzwilliam
Thesis Title: Borderline Democracy: Reason, Power, and Executive Empire in the Struggle over Migration Policy
Contact us
Postal Address:
The Department of Sociology
University of Cambridge
Free School Lane
Cambridge
CB2 3RQ

Tel: 01223 (3)34520
Fax: 01223 (3)34550
Information provided by:
   enquiries@sociology.cam.ac.uk
Social Media
Useful Information
Administrative information
Keep Us Updated
© 2015 University of Cambridge
University A-Z
Contact the University
Accessibility
Freedom of information
Terms and conditions
Study at Cambridge
About the University
How the University and Colleges work
Visiting the University
Map
News
Events
Jobs
Give to Cambridge
Research at Cambridge
This Site Uses Cookies
We may use cookies to record some preference settings and to analyse how you use our web site. We may also use external analysis systems which may set additional cookies to perform their analysis.These cookies (and any others in use) are detailed in our site privacy and cookie policies and are integral to our web site. You can delete or disable these cookies in your web browser if you wish but then our site may not work correctly.
I have read and understood this message. Hide this message