skip to primary navigation
skip to content
Study at Cambridge
About the University
Research at Cambridge
Quick links
Log in
Home
Faculty of Music
People
Prof Ian Cross
Faculty of Music
Home
About us
About us Overview
Our facilities
Our facilities Overview
West Road Concert Hall
Pendlebury Library
Instrument collection
Gamelan Dutå Laras
History of the Faculty of Music
Where are we?
Study Music at Cambridge
Study Music at Cambridge Overview
Undergraduate admissions
Undergraduate admissions Overview
Why music at Cambridge?
Events and open days
The Tripos
The Tripos Overview
Part IA
Part IB
Part II
How to apply
How to apply Overview
Entry requirements
Tests and interview
Information for successful applicants
Frequently asked questions
Graduate admissions
Graduate admissions Overview
M.Phil. in Music Studies
M.Phil. in Music Studies Overview
M.Phil. Course structure
M.Mus. in Choral Studies
M.Mus. in Choral Studies Overview
M.Mus. in Choral Studies
Ph.D. in Music
Graduate supervisors
Funding graduate study
How to apply
Former graduate students
Graduate Handbook
Graduate Handbook Overview
Graduate Handbook 2016-17
Postdoctoral Fellows
Academic visitors
Academic visitors Overview
Our facilities
The Best Time to Visit
How to Apply
Letter of Invitation
Notification of Arrival
Fees
How to Pay
English Language Requirements
Immigration and Visa Requirements
Accommodation
Careers
Careers Overview
Destinations of Music Graduates
Key Skills
Further Study
Research
People
People Overview
Academic Staff
Affiliated Lecturers
Directors of Studies
Directors of Music
Honorary and Emeritus Professors
Postdoctoral and Affiliated Researchers
Graduate Students
List of all Graduate Students
Support Staff
List of Visiting Scholars
Performance
Performance Overview
Studying Performance
Studying Performance Overview
Undergraduate performance pathway
CAMRAM
M.Mus. in Choral Studies
M.Phil. Performance Studies pathway
Ph.D. in Music
Practising Performance series
Performance awards
Performance awards Overview
Choral Awards and Organ Scholarships
Instrumental Awards Scheme
Instrumental Awards Scheme Overview
What instruments are eligible?
What happens at the audition?
How do I apply?
Additional information
Ensembles and societies
Ensembles and societies Overview
Faculty ensembles
Faculty ensembles Overview
Collegium Musicum
Collegium Musicum Overview
Instrument loan form
Collegium Musicum highlights 2016–17
Join Collegium Musicum
New Music Ensemble
Ensembles in Residence
Ensembles in Residence Overview
Academy of Ancient Music
Britten Sinfonia
Endellion String Quartet
Ligeti Quartet
CUMS ensembles
Other ensembles and societies
Other ensembles and societies Overview
Cambridge University Symphony Orchestra (CUSO)
Cambridge University Opera Society (CUOS)
Cambridge Gamelan
Societies
Cambridge concert and rehearsal schedule 2017/18
Research on performance
Cambridge Centre for Musical Performance Studies (CMPS)
Affiliated organisations
Affiliated organisations Overview
Kettle's Yard
Cambridge Organ Scholars’ Forum
Performance community
Further information
What's On
What's On Overview
About the Colloquia
News
News Overview
News item request form
Resources
Resources Overview
Multimedia
Research resources
Intranet
  Prof Ian Cross
Faculty of Music
About us
Study Music at Cambridge
Research
People
Academic Staff
Affiliated Lecturers
Directors of Studies
Directors of Music
Honorary and Emeritus Professors
Postdoctoral and Affiliated Researchers
Graduate Students
List of all Graduate Students
Support Staff
List of Visiting Scholars
Performance
What's On
News
Resources
Intranet
Professor of Music & Science
[on leave]
Faculty of Music
11 West Road
Cambridge CB3 9DP
Email: ic108@cam.ac.uk
Office Phone: 01223 335185
Websites:
http://www.mus.cam.ac.uk/directory/ian-cross
http://cms.mus.cam.ac.uk/directory/ian-cross
http://www-personal.mus.cam.ac.uk/~ic108/
Download as vCard
Biography:
Ian Cross is Professor of Music & Science and is a Fellow of Wolfson College, Cambridge. He is responsible for teaching science and music in the Faculty at Cambridge, where he is Director of the Faculty’s Centre for Music and Science (CMS). He is also a contributor to the University’s M.Phil in Film and Screen Studies. Publications include the books Musical Structure and Cognition (Academic Press, 1985) and Representing Musical Structure (Academic Press, 1991), both co-edited with Peter Howell and Robert West, the Oxford Handbook of Music Psychology (OUP, 2009; 2nd edition, 2016), co-edited with Susan Hallam and Michael Thaut, and Language and Music as Cognitive Systems (OUP, 2012), co-edited with Patrick Rebuschat, Martin Rorhmeier and John Hawkins.
He is a member of the Committee and a Trustee of the Society for Education, Music and Psychology Research (SEMPRE), and is a Governor, and Chair of the Research Committee, of the Music Therapy Charity. He is on the editorial advisory boards of numerous journals including Psychology of Music, Music Perception, AI & Society and The New Soundtrack, and from 1997 until 2000 was the Associate Editor (English language) of ESCOM’s journal Musicae Scientiae. Along with Professors Graham Welch and Adam Ockelford, he is Series Editor of Ashgate's SEMPRE Studies in the Psychology of Music, and he is Editor-in-Chief of SAGE's new online Open Access journal Music & Science.  He is also a guitarist.
For more information (including graduate student supervision) see Ian Cross's page on the CMS website.
Departments and Institutes
Wolfson College:
Professorial Fellow
Research Interests
Ian has undertaken wide-ranging research into many different aspects of music: experiments in music cognition have explored the nature of our experience of tonal and rhythmic structures, as well as the mechanisms that shape those experiences; a Leverhulme Trust-funded project with Professors Jim Woodhouse and Brian Moore (in the Departments of Engineering and Psychology, respectively) studied the perceptual correlates of violin acoustics; and projects in experimental archaeology have investigated the sound-producing potential of lithic artefacts and the possibility of their identification in the archaeological record.  He has also written extensively on the relationships between music and processes of evolution.
He has two main ongoing research projects, both exploring the dynamics and effects of music as an interactive medium.  The first focuses on the cognitive processes underlying spontaneous interaction in speech and music, with Sarah Hawkins, Cambridge, and Richard Ogden, University of York: for a recent paper with Juan Pablo Robledo, detailing some results, see http://www.isca-speech.org/archive/SpeechProsody_2016/pdfs/380.pdf.  The project is being further developed to incorporate motion-capture data, in collaboration with Carlos Cornejo and his group in the Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago.
The second project involves a full set of randomised controlled trials to explore potential relationships between musical group interaction and the development of the capacity for empathy and prosocial behaviour in children, following up the results of Rabinowitch, Cross, & Burnard (2013).  It is being conducted with Tal-Chen Rabinowitch at ILABS, University of Washington, Seattle, funded by the Templeton Foundation (see the project website at Enhancing Empathy through Music), and preliminary results will be available soon.
Collaborators
Prof Sarah Hawkins
Dina Kronhaus
Key Publications
Selected publications since 2012:
(for a more complete list and access to preprints of papers and chapters, see http://www-personal.mus.cam.ac.uk/~ic108/crosspubs96.html)
Books
Hallam, S., Cross, I.  & Thaut, M. (Eds.) (2016) Oxford Handbook of Music Psychology, (2nd edition). Oxford, Oxford University Press
Rebuschat, P., Rohrmeier, M., Hawkins, J. & Cross, I. (Eds.) (2012) Language and music as cognitive systems. Oxford University Press
Journal editing
Franco, F., & Cross, I. (2012).  Empirical Musicology Review, 7 (1-2), special issue constituting proceedings of BPS seminar on "Language and music, meaning and entrainment", December 2012, Cambridge (see http://emusicology.org/).
Peer-reviewed papers
Bravo, F., Cross, I., Hawkins, S., Gonzalez, N., Docampo, J., Bruno, C., & Stamatakis, E. (2017). Neural Mechanisms underlying Valence Inferences to Sound: the Role of the right Angular Gyrus. Neuropsychologia [10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2017.05.029]
Knight, S., Spiro, N., & Cross, I. (2017) Look, listen and learn: Exploring effects of passive entrainment on social judgements of observed others. Psychology of Music, 45(1), 99-115.
Bravo, F., Cross, I., Stamatakis, E. A., & Rohrmeier, M. (2017). Sensory cortical response to uncertainty and low salience during recognition of affective cues in musical intervals. PLoSONE, 12(4), e0175991.
Woolhouse, M., Tidhar, D., and Cross, I. (2016) Effects on interpersonal memory of dancing in time with others.  Frontiers in Psychology, 7(167), 1-8. [doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2016.00167]
Woolhouse, M., Cross, I. & Horton, T. (2016) The cognition of non-adjacent harmonic relations. Psychology of Music, 44(4), 802-815.
Blake, E. & Cross, I. (2015) The acoustic and auditory contexts of human behavior. Current Anthropology, 56(1), 81-103.
Cross, I. (2014).  Music and communication in music psychology.  Psychology of Music, 42(6), 808-819.
Rohrmeier, M. A., & Cross, I. (2014). Modelling unsupervised online-learning of artificial grammars: Linking implicit and statistical learning. Consciousness & Cognition, 27c, 155-167.
Cross, I. (2013).  "Does not compute?": music as real-time communicative interaction. AI & Society, 28(4), 415-430.
Rohrmeier, M. & Cross, I. (2013). Artificial grammar learning of melody is constrained by melodic inconsistency: Narmour's principles affect melodic learning. PLosONE, 8(7), e66174.
Rabinowitch, T-C, Cross, I. & Burnard, P. (2013).  Long-term musical group interaction has a positive influence on empathy in children. Psychology of Music, 41(4), 484-498.
Cross, I. (2012). Cognitive science and the cultural nature of music. Topics in Cognitive Science, 4(4), 668-677.
Fritz, C., Blackwell, A. F., Cross, I., Woodhouse, J., & Moore, B.C.J. (2012). Exploring violin sound quality: investigating English timbre descriptors and correlating acoustical modifications with perceptual properties. Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, 131 (1), 783-794.
Chapters in books
Robledo Del Canto, J. P., Hawkins, S., Cross, I., & Ogden, R. (2016, 31 May - 3 June). Pitch-interval analysis of periodic and aperiodic question-answer pairs. In J. Barnes, A. Brugos, S. Shattuck-Hufnagel & N. Veilleux (Eds), Proceedings of Speech Prosody 2016, Boston (pp1071-1075).
Cross, I (2016) The nature of music and its evolution. In S. Hallam, I. Cross, and M. Thaut (Eds.) Oxford Handbook of Music Psychology , 2nd Edn, (pp 3-17), Oxford, Oxford University Press.
Cross, I. & Tolbert, E (2016) Music and meaning. In S. Hallam, I. Cross, and M. Thaut (Eds.) Oxford Handbook of Music Psychology, 2nd Edn, (pp 33-46), Oxford, Oxford University Press.
Stainsby, T. & Cross, I (2016) The perception of pitch. In S. Hallam, I. Cross, and M. Thaut (Eds.) Oxford Handbook of Music Psychology, 2nd Edn, (pp 63-79), Oxford, Oxford University Press.
Hallam, S., Thaut, M. & Cross, I. (2016) Where now? In S. Hallam, I. Cross, and M. Thaut (Eds.) Oxford Handbook of Music Psychology, 2nd Edn, (pp 905-913), Oxford, Oxford University Press.
Cross, I. (2015). Music, speech and meaning in interaction. In Christian Maeder & Mark Reybrouck (Eds.). Music, Analysis, Experience. New Perspectives in Musical Semiotics. (pp19-30) Leuven: Leuven University Press.
Hawkins, S., Cross, I., & Ogden, R. (2013). Communicative interaction in spontaneous music and speech. In M. Orwin, C. Howes & R. Kempson (Eds.), Music, language and interaction (pp285-329), London: College Publications.
Cross, I., Fitch, W. T., Aboitiz, F., Iriki, A., Jarvis, E. D., Lewis, J., Liebal, K., Merker, B., Stout, D., and Trehub, S. E. (2013). Culture and evolution.  In Michael Arbib (Ed.) Language, music and the brain, (pp541-562), Strüngmann Forum Reports, Vol. 10, Cambridge, MA, MIT Press.
Rabinowitch, T-C, Cross, I. & Burnard, P. (2012). Between Consciousnesses: Embodied Musical Intersubjectivity. In M. Reason & D. Reynolds (Eds.), Kinesthetic Empathy in Creative and Cultural Practices, (pp109-120), Intellect Press, Bristol.
Cross, I. (2012).  Music as an emergent exaptation.  In N. Bannan (Ed.) Music, language and human evolution (pp263-276), Oxford, Oxford University Press.
Cross, I., Laurence, F. & Rabinowitch, T-C. (2012) Empathy and creativity in group musical practices; towards a concept of empathic creativity. In G. MacPherson and G. Welch (Eds.) Oxford Handbook of Music Education, (pp337-353). Oxford, Oxford University Press.
Cross, I. (2012).  Music and biocultural evolution.  Rewritten chapter for second edition of M. Clayton, R. Middleton, T. Herbert (Eds.) The Cultural Study of Music: A Critical Introduction (pp17-27), London: Routledge.
Filed under: IB Introduction to Music and Science
Quick links
Music prospectus
Academic staff
Music research
Admissions office
Outreach
Instrumental Awards Scheme
Pendlebury Library
West Road Concert Hall
@camunimusic on Twitter
Faculty of Music on Facebook
Youtube
Latest news
VIDEO: Liszt opera premiere
Jun 16, 2017
Booking open for Music Masterclass on 15 July
Jun 12, 2017
Arthur Bliss Prize for Composition
Jun 12, 2017
Ian Cross named as Editor-in-chief of new SAGE journal, Music & Science
Jun 09, 2017
Francesca Vella awarded a British Academy Postdoctoral Fellowship at the Faculty of Music
Jun 05, 2017
David Roche selected for Sound and Music Portfolio Scheme
Jun 05, 2017
View all news
Faculty of Music on Twitter
Contact us
Postal Address:
Faculty of Music, 11 West Road
Cambridge CB3 9DP
Information provided by:
   faculty.music.webmaster@gmail.com
Site Privacy & Cookie Policies
Connect
Facebook
Twitter
Music Links
West Road Concert Hall
Pendlebury Library of Music
University Library Music Department
CaMEO (Music Outreach)
Centre for Music and Science
© 2015 University of Cambridge
University A-Z
Contact the University
Accessibility
Freedom of information
Terms and conditions
Study at Cambridge
Undergraduate
Graduate
International students
Continuing education
Executive and professional education
Courses in education
About the University
How the University and Colleges work
Visiting the University
Map
News
Events
Jobs
Give to Cambridge
Research at Cambridge
News
Features
Discussion
Spotlight on...
About research at Cambridge
This Site Uses Cookies
We may use cookies to record some preference settings and to analyse how you use our web site. We may also use external analysis systems which may set additional cookies to perform their analysis.These cookies (and any others in use) are detailed in our site privacy and cookie policies and are integral to our web site. You can delete or disable these cookies in your web browser if you wish but then our site may not work correctly.
I have read and understood this message. Hide this message