Personal tools
Web Editor Log in
Search Site
Advanced Search…
|
Navigation
University HomeUniversity A-ZMaps and Directions
History
Home / Academic Departments / History / People / Dr David Wilson
Dr David Wilson
Honorary Research Fellow
Contact Details
  Email: dw149@le.ac.uk  
Research
My specialist research area and publications concern both historical anthrozoology and the history of comparative psychology (the subject of my Leicester doctorate of 1999) as well as other studies of animal behaviour (pure and applied) especially in Britain, including interdisciplinary, institutional, professional, ethical, recreational, literary and military aspects.
Publications 
External Contributions
I served as a member of the Peer Review College of the Arts and Humanities Research Council between 2009 and 2013, assessing and advising on the quality of research grant applications.
I continue to serve on the Editorial Board of Anthrozoös, a multidisciplinary academic journal of the interactions of people and animals, published for the International Society for Anthrozoology. I am also a reviewer for Ethnic and Racial Studies.
My historical research has been the basis of a 40-minute television documentary awaiting production. My research has also contributed to a new publication under the auspices of the Imperial War Museum, as part of commemorations of the First World War, and to similar commemorative material for BBC local radio.
Research material has been used for the BBC Coast series (1 July 2007). In addition to appearances on the BBC, I was asked to advise the BBC Natural History Unit about the thematic content and structure of a radio programme. From Vicars to Clones would investigate how the historic development of animal behaviour theory responded to and threw light on contemporary human interests, activities or preoccupations, in areas such as altruism, group loyalty, processes of learning, sexual morality, industrial efficiency, co-operation, and motivation.
Publications
(2015) The welfare of performing animals: a historical perspective. Berlin: Springer
(2011) ‘British animal behaviour studies in the twentieth century: some interdisciplinary perspectives’, in  C. Blazina, G. Boyra, D. Shen-Miller (eds) The psychology of the human-animal bond: a resource for clinicians and researchers. New York: Springer, pp. 25-44.
(2010) ‘Animal performance: interdisciplinary features of a special area of performing arts history’, Journal of the Scottish Society for Art History, vol. 15, pp. 7-16.
(2009) ‘Racial prejudice and the performing animals controversy in early twentieth-century Britain’, Society and Animals. Journal of Human-Animal Studies, vol. 17 (2), pp. 149-165.  
  Share this page:
Share
History
Undergraduate Courses
Postgraduate Study
Research
People
Dr David Wilson
Publications
David Wilson
News and Events
About History at Leicester
Careers
Alumni
Outreach
Heritage Practice Training Programme
Information For Students
Contact Details
History
University of Leicester
University Road
Leicester
LE1 7RH
T: +44(0)116 252 2587
E: hypir@le.ac.uk
Research Centres
Centre for American Studies
Centre for English Local History
Medieval Research Centre
Stanley Burton Centre for Holocaust and Genocide Studies
Centre for Urban History
Request a prospectus
Book an open day
How to find us
News and Events
Historian features in new BBC film
Jun 21, 2017
Expert opinions cover the General Election and the DUP, tower blocks and media engagement plans
Jun 15, 2017
Academic delivers talk on future of nuclear weapons at Nobel Peace Institute
Jun 13, 2017
Expert opinions cover the Anthropocene, Leo Varadkar, trauma after terror attacks and protest camps
Jun 07, 2017
News and Events -
More…
Follow the University on
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on YouTube
Follow us on Flickr
Follow us on Linkedin
Follow us on Google+
Follow us on SoundCloud
Staff
Current Students
Library
Blackboard
Remote Access
Contact the University
Legal
Privacy & Cookies
Accessibility
Help