Cookies help us to give you the best experience on our website. You can change your cookie settings if you wish. Otherwise we'll assume you're OK to continue.OKSee our policy
UK
China
Malaysia
Study
Research
Business
Global
About
A-Z
   You are here:
  University of NottinghamHealth SciencesPeople
School of Health Sciences
       Home
About Us
Undergraduate Study
Continuing Professional Development
Postgraduate Study
Research
International study
Alumni
Partners
Practice
People
Open Days
News
Events
Contact Us
  Ruth Pearce
Associate Professor, Faculty of Medicine & Health Sciences
Download to vCard
Back to the Staff Directory
Personal Details
Research
Publications
Contact
Room S/A1976 A floor corridor, South Block Link
Queen's Medical Centre
Nottingham
NG7 2UH
UK
01158230494
Ruth.Pearce@nottingham.ac.uk
Biography
Ruth nursed clinically for 11 years on intensive care units throughout Birmingham including general, trauma and burns, cardiac and liver specialties.
Ruth has held various lecturing and senior lecturing posts including:
University of Birmingham 1999-2005: Programme Director for DipHE in Nursing
University of Worcester 2005-2016: Lead for Continuing Professional Development, Project Lead for Transforming Practice Through Research. Programme Lead for PGC - Teacher in Health and Social Care.
University of Nottingham 2016-ongoing: Associate Professor of Adult Nursing, Programme Director MSc Advanced Clinical Practice and new curriculum development lead for 2018.
In 2014 Ruth completed a Doctorate in Education (Leaders and Leadership) at the University of Birmingham. The thesis explored learning how to lead through engaging with enquiry based learning as a threshold process. An aspect of the thesis was disseminated at the Nurse Education Today conference in September 2014.
Ruth was Chair of the Association of Advanced Practice Educators - UK (AAPE) from 2014-2016 having previously and since been a committee member. As part of her work at AAPE-UK Ruth is on the Health Education England Steering Group which aims to develop a National Framework for Advanced Clinical Practice and is liaising with Trusts nationally to develop an Advanced Clinical Practice apprenticeship trailblazer. This follows on from her work with Health Education England (West Midlands Branch) which developed a framework for Advanced Clinical Practice in 2015.
Further to this work, Ruth is on the Queen's Nursing Institute Committee to develop voluntary standards for General Practice Nursing in association with the NMC, RCGP, RCN and the Department of Health.
Ruth is part of the Nursing and Midwifery Council virtual Thought Leadership Group which contributes and informs the development of new standards and outcomes for future nurses at the point of registration.
Out with her University work, Ruth is an Executive Board Member of the Institute of Ageing and Health - West Midlands (IAH) and is a member of the Education and Research Committee as well as co-editor of the Institute's Journal: Ageing and Health. The Institute is an independent charity which embraces the education and development of all the disciplines involved in the care of older people. The Journal disseminates evidence based practice to promote excellence in care for older people.
Expertise Summary
Ruth is an experienced academic with extensive knowledge and skills in delivering professional education to undergraduate and postgraduate healthcare professionals. She works in partnership with the NHS, independent sector, international partners and professional, statutory and regulatory bodies .
Ruth is the lead within the division for the nursing curriculum rewrite for 2018. She is programme director of the MSc Advanced Clinical Practice.
As outgoing Chair of the Association of Advanced Practice Educators - UK and ongoing committee member, Ruth has expertise in developing regional and national frameworks for advanced clinical practice and has extensive experience as a critical reviewer of advanced practice programmes.
Ruth has written curricula on the Standards to Support Learning and Assessment in Practice and led a PGCE for healthcare professionals which was validated by the NMC.
Ruth's thesis was on enquiry based learning and how traits of leadership emerged in the post-graduate students who engaged with the process of enquiry based learning. Alongside her interest in enquiry based learning Ruth has researched the use and effect of creative arts in older people communities.
Teaching Summary
Enquiry based learning
Facilitating learning
Curriculum development
Creative arts
Recent Publications
2017. A literature review of the ethics of surveillance technologies Ageing and Health. 21, 15-19
2016. Sensory stimulation activities: is there any evidence? Ageing and Health. 20, 4-8
RUTH PEARCE, 2015. Reducing social isolation in a rural community through participation in creative arts projects. Nursing Older People. 27(10), 33-38
SUE LILLYMAN, RUTH PEARCE, ALICE SAUNDERS and PENNY ALLEN, 2014. An evaluation of a poetry project working with older people in residential and nursing homes. Ageing and Health. 19, 12-15
View all publications
School of Health Sciences
B Floor, South Block Link
Queen's Medical Centre
Nottingham, NG7 2HA
telephone: +44 (0)115 823 0850
email: shs-enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
Legal information
Copyright
Terms and conditions
Privacy
Posting rules
Accessibility
Freedom of information
Charity gateway
Cookie policy
Get social
Connect with the University of Nottingham through social media and our blogs.
        Campus maps | More contact information | Jobs
 