home | about us | research | people | consultancy| graduate programs | publications | events | media| contact us | links
This research centre ceased operation on 31 December 2016. This website is archived. There will be no further updates to this site.
Economics and Innovation
The program focuses on central ethical issues arising in the economic sphere. These include the justice of national and global economic arrangements, such as taxation, fiscal, labour and property law, and financial and trading regimes. Specific areas include markets in education and the economics of climate change. The program also examines corporate responsibilities in the spheres of finance, profitability, sustainability and human rights, and distributive justice. It aims to make a major contribution to the ethical understanding of innovation and technology. Program members realize that technical, scientific, legal and social science expertise is vital, and work with practitioners in the relevant professions.
Environment
Research in this program examines a range of issues that arise from the nature and value of the natural, and also the artificial environment, and our relationship with them. These include issues of justice and responsibility in relation to possession of, access to, and exploitation of land, water, and other (renewable and non-renewable) natural resources, ethical issues in climate change mitigation and adaptation, including those involving geo-engineering, and the human role in the anthropocene. 
Health
This program addresses issues in bioethics, healthcare ethics, and public health ethics. This includes conceptual work on the ethics of procreation, the ethics of providing medical treatment to vulnerable groups such as children, dual use issues in the biological sciences, and the distinction between medical treatment and human enhancement. It also includes work on practical ethical issues arising in healthcare, including moral and regulatory challenges of experimental therapies, difficulties facing medical research ethics committees, and the problem of determining when conscientious objections are legitimate in healthcare.
Security
This program addresses a variety of conceptual and practical ethical issues that are generated for the most part by the phenomena of war, humanitarian intervention, terrorism, crime and corruption. These include the nature and application of Just War Theory, morality and self-defense, principles of criminal liability, justification for police use of force, ethics of counter-terrorism tactics, anti-corruption systems and ethical issues in cyber-security.
WHAT'S NEW
2015 Annual Report [.pdf]
CAPPE Events
Seminar 28th September
Norvo Lo - La Trobe University
This paper discusses social attitudes towards feeding neighbourhood wild birds. It connects different and often opposing attitudes on the issue to three schools of philosophy regarding animals and nature. These include animal liberation ethics, wilderness preservation ethics,and anthropocentrism. 
Contact CAPPE for more information.

CAPPE Media

Professor Seumas Miller
Institutional Corruption and The Capital Markets  More
Fixing the Fix - Benchmark Reform and the Future of Financial Regulation  More
Designing-in-Ethics: A Compulsary Retirement Savings System  More
Dr Stephen Clarke
On Religious Violence, ABC Western Plains 'Mornings', radio interview  More
Past media events
Dr Tamara Browne
Bioethics
Telephone +61 (02) 6272-6277
Email: tambrowne@csu.edu.au
View my CV (.pdf)
Biography
Dr Tamara Kayali Browne is a Research Assistant at the Centre for Applied Philosophy and Public Ethics at Charles Sturt University. Prior to her current appointment, she held a three-year Lectureship in Bioethics at the Australian National University and was a Postdoctoral Research Fellow at Novel Tech Ethics at Dalhousie University from 2012-2013. She was awarded her PhD from Cambridge University in 2012.
Her dissertation focused on issues of control, responsibility and the self in depression and used qualitative interviews with women to explore this topic. She is currently writing a book based on this research which will be published with Cambridge University Press in 2017.
Her research focuses on the ethics and philosophy of reproductive technology (particularly sex selection) and mental illness (particularly how it is classified and treated).
Her analytic approach is particularly influenced by feminism and phenomenology and a common thread throughout her research is a concern with gender and the deeper questions it raises for bioethical debates.
Fields of interest
Reproductive ethics
Ethics and philosophy of mental illness