Skip to main content
UC Davis Health | News | Careers | Giving | UC Davis
Clinical Services
Our Team
Patients & Visitors
Appointments & Referrals
Newsroom
About Us
Map & Directions
UC Davis HealthMedical CenterChildren’s Hospital Our Team
The Children’s Hospital team
Our pediatricians and specialists
All registered nurse (RN) nursing staff
Our nurse managers
Child Life and Creative Arts Therapy Department staff
Home care services
Medical social workers and other professionals
Young adult bereavement support
Noriko Satake, M.D.

Printable PDF
Download vCard
Specialties
Cancer
Pediatric Hematology/Oncology
Department
Pediatrics
Title
Associate Professor
To see if Noriko Satake is accepting new patients, or for assistance finding a UC Davis doctor, please call 800-2-UCDAVIS (800-282-3284).
Location, Directions and Contact Info




Overview
Education
Publications
Clinical Interests
Dr. Satake's research focuses on the development of targeted therapies for pediatric cancers, with a special emphasis on leukemia and neuroblastoma. She is currently developing targeted therapies using nanoparticles, chemotherpeutic drugs, and siRNA, with leukemia-specific ligands and antibodies.
She has developed a human leukemia xenograft mouse model and used this model to evaluate markers for leukemia stem cells. Through a collaboration she initiated with a local company, she has also developed a mouse model of a rare pediatric cancer, which will be used to study this cancer and evaluate new therapies.
Her other research focus is translation of bioengineering technologies into clinical applications. She has establisthed strong collaborations with bioengineers at the UC Davis Center for Biophotonics Science and Technology, particularly in the application of Raman spectroscopy in the clinic. In a previous collaboration, she studied leukemia cells in cerebrospinal fluid using Raman spectroscopy as an objective measurement of central nervous system leukemia. More recently, they have begun to focus on red blood cells.
Division
Pediatric Hematology/Oncology
Center/Program Affiliation
Stem Cell Research Program
Stem Cell Transplant Program
UC Davis Children's Hospital
UC Davis Comprehensive Cancer Center
Ways to help
Your online donations make a big difference to our patients at UC Davis Children’s Hospital.  
Donate online »
Guide to pediatric services
UC Davis Children's Hospital is helping children reach their full potential. Download our guide to pediatric services to understand the full range of pediatric specialty care, services and programs we offer. Available in English and Spanish. See publications »
  Quick links and other resources
About UC Davis Children’s Hospital
Family & Visitor Information
Map & Directions
UC Davis Health
UC Davis
UC DAVIS CHILDREN’S HOSPITAL
2315 Stockton Blvd.  |  Sacramento, CA 95817  |  Contact Phone: 1-800-UCD-4-KIDS  |  24-Hour Operator: 916-734-2011
© 2017 UC Regents. All Rights Reserved  |  Legal  |  Jobs  |  About Us  |  Contact Us
AddThis Sharing Sidebar
Share to Facebook
, Number of shares
Share to Twitter
Share to Google+
Share to LinkedIn
, Number of shares
Share to Pinterest
, Number of shares
Share to Email
More AddThis Share options
, Number of shares