 
Matthew Isaac Armstrong Last modified date：2017.05.26

Associate Professor / Faculty of Languages and Cultures
Department of Linguistic Environment
Faculty of Languages and Cultures


1 Research Interests
2 Membership in Academic Society


E-Mail
Academic Degree
Master's of Education (TESOL)
Field of Specialization
Curriculum Design, Teaching Methodology, Academic Writing
Outline Activities
1.
As all experienced teachers know, as students change from class to class and year to year, so too do their language learning needs. For this reason, identifying lexical features that need to be taught to a particular group of students represents an important starting point when developing second language courses. In short, the aim of my current action research involves the process of analyzing student writing with the purpose of using results to devise a reactive and tentative“four strand”vocabulary building curriculum. Many of my in-class activities build off of Lev Vygotsky's work on the Zone of Proximal Development.
2.
With the undertaking of a new graduate programme my research interests have seen a shift to Early Education, specifically within the field of Special Education. Recent research has addressed the deficiency of Joint Attention in children on the Autism Spectrum and on its implications for inclusive learning contexts.
Research
Research Interests
In Fall of 2009 began a new Graduate Degree Specializing in Pervasive Development Disorders (PDD) in Early Education.
マシュー・アームストロングの最新の学術研究は、第二言語習得研究と母国語学
習障害（特に幼児がかかえる自閉症スペクトラム障害〔ASD〕及び広汎性発達障害
〔PDD-NOS〕）との共通要素に関する比較論考である。一方の領域における研究結
果や研究方法が、他方の領域においていかに有益に応用出来得るかということに
焦点を置いている。
keyword : PDD
2009.10～2014.10.
My research interest involve evaluating student willingness to communicate (WTC) in English with respect to Lev Vygotsky's Zone of Proximal Development (ZPD)
keyword : WTC, ZPD, Vygotsky
2008.04～2009.04.
Membership in Academic Society
STEP
Japanese Association of Language Teachers (JALT)


Unauthorized reprint of the contents of this database is prohibited.

Copyright © 2006, Kyushu University. All rights reserved.