Skip to main content
Search form
Search
Tickets | Directions | CTSA
About
»
Introduction
News
Practice Rooms
Musicians for Hire
Facilities and Technology
Job Vacancies
People
»
Faculty
Faculty by Area
CTSA Artist in Residence
Staff
Emeritus Faculty
Prospective Students
»
Undergraduate Degrees
Graduate Degrees
Apply
»
Auditions
Undergraduate Applicants
Graduate Applicants
Opportunities
»
Music Student Organizations
Performance Opportunities
Visit UCI Music
Links for Prospective Students
Calendar
»
Upcoming Events
Brochure
Box Office
Current Students
»
Welcome Week
»
Welcome Week Schedule
Musicianship & Theory Exams
Symphony - Audition Repertoire
Symphony - Syllabus
Music Department Orientation
Policies
»
Department Room Use
Practice Room Code of Conduct
Room Reservation & Key Check Out
Music Technology Facilities
Instrument/Equipment Loan
Retention of Graded Work
UCI New Student Handbook
Graduate Handbook
Student Affairs
Forms
»
Music 191, 199, 240, 250
Voice Jury Exam
Student Recital Information
Opportunities
»
Arts Media Center
Concerto Competition
Honors Program in Music & Culture
Music Student Organizations
Performance Opportunities
Links for Current Students
Connect
»
Giving
Friends of Music
Alumni
Summer Academies
Contact
KEVIN MCKEOWN
M.M., University of California, Los Angeles
Kevin McKeown is the conductor of the Wind Ensemble at the University of California, Irvine. Originally from Belfast, Northern Ireland, he attended UCLA and earned B.A. and M.M. degrees in music education and instrumental conducting. He was a 4 year Drum Major of the “Sold Gold Sound” of the UCLA Bruin Marching Band, and a Graduate Associate Conductor of the UCLA Wind Ensemble and Symphonic Band. He is a “Highly Qualified Teacher” (HQT), receiving the Certificated Teaching Credential from California State University, Los Angeles. His teachers include: Dr. Thomas Lee, Gordon Henderson, Dr. Jennifer Judkins, Donald Neuen, Robert Winter, and Gary Gray.
Mr. McKeown is currently the conductor of the Santa Monica College Wind Ensemble and is Director of Bands at Santa Monica High School, where he directs four concert bands, the SAMOHI Viking Marching Band, and oversees two jazz bands, a percussion methods and winterguard classes. In 2013 he made his debut at historic Chicago Symphony Center as part of the Chicago International Music Festival, collaborating with Mr. Chris Martin, principal trumpet of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, featuring a performance of Alexander Arutiuian’s Concerto for Trumpet.
As an active adjudicator, clinician, and guest conductor throughout California, Kevin McKeown is also a member of the California Band Director’s Association (CBDA), Southern California School Band and Orchestra Association (SCSBOA), World Association of Symphonic Bands and Ensembles (WASBE), and the College Band Directors National Association (CBDNA). He is a promoter of new music for the wind band, having commissioned and collaborated on numerous projects featuring local composers. Conducting appearances have included UCLA’s Schoenberg Hall and Royce Hall, The J. Paul Getty Center (Los Angeles), Eli and Edythe Broad Stage, Chicago Symphony Center, Luckman Fine Arts Complex, Plaza del Sol Performance Hall (CSUN), Barnum Hall, Green Music Center (Sonoma State University), and Claire Trevor Theatre and Winifred Smith Hall, on the campus of UC Irvine.
Title: 
Lecturer
Phone: 
949-824–6615
E-mail: 
mckeownk@uci.edu
Location: 
303 Music & Media
Area: 
Instrumental Performance
Department of Music, Claire Trevor School of the Arts   UC Irvine   303 Music & Media, Irvine, CA 92697-2775
Main Office: 949-824-6615   Email: music@uci.edu
©2015 Claire Trevor School of the Arts   All rights reserved.