Skip to content
Skip to navigation
my.monash
Current students
Staff
Library
Giving to Monash
SCIENCE
ABOUT US
FUTURE STUDENTS
CURRENT STUDENTS
RESEARCH
INDUSTRY & PARTNERSHIPS
ALUMNI & COMMUNITY
Toggle Search
School of Biological Sciences
Unit information
About the School of Biological Sciences
Biological Sciences Future Undergraduate Students
Current students
Honours in Biological Sciences
Biological Sciences Postgraduate Studies
Research in Biological Sciences
School Facilities
Biological Sciences Seminar Program
Academic staff
Contacting the School of Biological Sciences
Staff Intranet
You are here:
Home | Schools in Science | School of Biological Sciences | staff | Marina Telonis-Scott
Marina Telonis-Scott
  Marina Telonis-Scott
Lecturer
Telephone: +61 3 990 24607
Fax: +61 3 9905 5613
E-mail: Marina.TelonisScott@monash.edu
  My research interests are to understand how organisms counter thermal extremes under climate change, and to more accurately characterise species likely to be under adaptive constraints.  Specifically, I am focused on identifying the genomic mechanisms uunderpinning both evolutionary and plastic responses to climatic extremes such including temperature and low humidity.
I largely utilise Drosophila population genomics to gain new insight into a variety of phenotypes and evolutionary processes, with a particular focus on environmental change and climatic adaptation.
By capturing molecular level adaptive signatures of organisms at their upper limits, I aim to provide crucial but currently lacking foundational connections between species adaptive capacities and persistence in their current and future habitats.
I use a range of genetic and genomic tools but my go-to experimental approach uses high throughput sequencing technology to deeply probe the transcriptome (the ‘expressed’ portion of genes) to understand how cells activate gene-expression strategies to enable whole organism survival under stress.
I am also interested in the significance of the RNA-mediated stress response in buffering climatic extremes. Specifically, I focus on RNA processing events such as alternative splicing (AS), where multiple, functionally distinct products can be derived from a single gene.
Many genes possess an array of AS modules that may provide novel avenues for survival to environmental stress via increasing the molecular kitbag. However, AS remains largely ignored in animal stress and climate change studies but is an exciting area of possibility in understanding how organisms respond to stress.
Join the conversation
Instagram Linked In Twitter Facebook Google+ Tumblr Youtube Baidu
QUICK LINKS
Important dates
Pay online
Eat, drink, shop
Library
Maps
Jobs at Monash
Recruit a student
Indigenous Australians
Safer community
Study online
ABOUT MONASH
Faculties
Campuses
A–Z index
Contact Monash
Media releases
ON OUR SITE
Current students
Staff
Site map
A MEMBER OF
Authorised by: Chief Marketing Officer, Strategic Marketing and Communications. Maintained by: eSolutions Service Desk. Last updated: May 2017.
Copyright © 2017 Monash University. ABN 12 377 614 012 Accessibility - Disclaimer and copyright - Privacy, Monash University CRICOS Provider Number: 00008C, Monash College CRICOS Provider Number: 01857J. Monash University is a registered higher education provider under the TEQSA Act 2011.
We acknowledge and pay respects to the Elders and Traditional Owners of the land on which our five Australian campuses stand. Information for Indigenous Australians
BACK TO TOP