SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
EDUCATION
RESEARCH
DEPARTMENTS
FACULTY
ALUMNI
ABOUT
Search
Faculty
School of Medicine
Faculty
Faculty Details
Katharine S. Ullman, PhD
Research Interests
Cell Division
Cancer Biomarkers
Breast Cancer
Nuclear Pore Complex
Cytokinesis
Labs
Lab Website
Languages
English
Academic Profile
Education
Publications
Academic Information
Departments: Biochemistry - Adjunct Professor, Oncological Sciences - Professor
Cancer Center Programs: Cell Response & Regulation
Academic Office Information
801-585-7123
Huntsman Cancer Institute
2000 Circle of Hope, Room: 3262
Salt Lake City, UT 84112
Academic Bio
Huntsman Cancer Institute (HCI) investigator Katharine Ullman, PhD, is a professor in the Department of Oncological Sciences at the University of Utah School of Medicine, an adjunct professor in the Department of Biochemistry at the University of Utah, and a member of the Cell Response and Regulation Program. She began serving as the Associate Dean of the Graduate School at the University of Utah in 2016.
Ullman and her research team focus on the coordination of cell division, with a particular interest in how disassembly and assembly of nuclear architecture is integrated with other events of cell division. The nucleus harbors a specialized environment, optimized to protect and regulate the cell's DNA. Mis-coordination of cellular remodeling during division leaves the DNA vulnerable to damage and mis-regulation. Elucidating this aspect of cell cycle control opens a new avenue to understanding cell function and how mistakes in division may contribute to tumorigenesis.
Ullman earned a PhD from Stanford University before going to the University of California at San Diego for her postdoctoral studies, which were funded in part by the American Cancer Society. She is a recipient of a Burroughs Wellcome Career Award in the Biomedical Sciences and a Scholar award from the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society.



University of Utah School of Medicine
30 N. 1900 E
Salt Lake City, Utah 84132
801-581-7201
Quick Links
Webmaster
Disclaimer
Privacy