About UHealth International Patients En Español
Home
Find a Doctor
Appointments
Referrals
Patient Services
Locations
Billing
My UHealthChart
Find a Doctor » Profile
Print
E-mail

Simon C. Chakko, M.D.
Contact
Fax: 305-243-5565
Specialties
Cardiovascular Disease - Internal Medicine
Internal Medicine
Cardiology-Internal Medicine
Languages
English
Clinical Areas
Congestive heart failure, coronary artery disease, arrhythmias, cardiology education, exercise stress testing, echocardiography
Certifications
American Board of Internal Medicine
American Board of Internal Med-Cardiovascular Disease
Roles
Chief, Cardiology, Miami Veterans Affairs Medical Center
Professor of Medicine
Research Interests
Echocardiography
Publications
See Dr. Chakko's Publications
Education
Undergraduate
St. Joseph's College
Graduate
St. John's Medical College
Residency
Jersey City Medical Center
Fellowship
Temple University Hospital
Biography
Areas of Specialization
Congestive heart failure
Coronary artery disease
Echocardiography
Simon Chakko, M.D., is professor of medicine at the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine. He is also Chief of the cardiology section and of the non-invasive laboratories at the Miami VA Medical Center (VAMC). Dr. Chakko received his undergraduate education at St. Joseph's College in Tiruchy, India, and his medical degree from St. John's Medical College in Bangalore, India. He underwent a residency in internal medicine at  Jersey City Medical Center and cardiology fellowship at  Temple University Hospital, Philadephia. Dr. Chakko was an Associate Professor of Medicine at the University of Virginia before joining the University of Miami.
Dr. Chakko has published 87 articles and edited or coedited 23 books. He is a Fellow of both the American College of Cardiology and the American College of Physicians. He was awarded the outstanding teaching attending of the year on four separae ocasions by Internal Medicine Residents / Cardiology Fellows
Print
E-mail

Specialties
Cardiology
Using cutting edge technology and the latest clinical research, UHealth cardiovascular specialists provide comprehensive diagnostic and treatment services for patients. Because UHealth is a university-based health system, heart patients are able to take advantage of breakthrough procedures and clinical trials only offered at University of Miami Hospital.
Learn more about Cardiology at UHealth »
Internal Medicine
University of Miami Health System Internal Medicine is focused on helping patients maintain good health and avoid serious illness. In addition, our world-class physicians are experts at diagnosing and treating a wide range of illnesses and diseases.
Learn more about Internal Medicine at UHealth »
Research and Medical Education by:
University of Miami Health System
About UHealth
Careers
Contact
Newsletter Signup
Twitter
Facebook
YouTube
Community
Medical Disclaimer
Terms of Use
Privacy Statement
© Copyright 2017
Every Gift Counts
University of Miami Health System, delivering South Florida's most advanced medical care.
For general information call 305-243-4000. International patients please call 305-243-9100.