The University of British Columbia
The University of British Columbia
UBC Search
Faculty of Medicine
Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine
HOME
Department
Human Resources
Educational Programs
Educational Resources
Faculty
Research
News and Events
Password Protected
year-2017
Faculty
Faculty Members
Faculty Promotions
Faculty by Research Location
Faculty by Rank
Associate Members
Emeriti Faculty Members
Dr. Marianne D SadarBSc, PhD
Academic Rank:
Professor, UBC
Distinguished Scientist, Michael Smith Genome Sciences Centre, BC Cancer Agency
Affiliation(s):
BC Cancer Agency
e-mail:
msadar@bcgsc.ca
Basic Info
Academic
Research
Teaching
Lab website:
http://www.bcgsc.ca/faculty/msadar
Short Bio:
Distinguished Scientist, Genome Sciences Centre, BC Cancer Agency
President, Society of Basic Urologic Research
Chief Scientific Officer, ESSA Pharma Inc
Professor, Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of British Columbia (UBC)
Provincial Program Leader for Prostate Cancer Research
Dr. Sadar’s career in prostate cancer started at the BC Cancer Agency as a post-doctoral fellow in Dr. Nicholas Bruchovsky’s laboratory. Her research has focused upon discovering new treatments for advanced prostate cancer. Dr. Sadar recently developed an experimental drug that shrinks prostate cancer tumours in the lab and is the first drug in the world that targets the “engine” of the tumour that causes the cancer to grow.
Dr. Sadar is the author of over 50 peer-reviewed publications, has served on more than 30 scientific panels, and has been a recipient of several prestigious awards, including the Terry Fox Young Investigator Award, Simon Fraser University Alumni Award for Academic Excellence. She is the first non-American to receive the Society of Women in Urology/Society of Basic Urologic Research Award for Excellence in Urologic Research.
You can read Dr. Sadar’s blog posts here.
Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine
Faculty of Medicine
Rm. G227 – 2211 Wesbrook Mall
Vancouver, BC Canada V6T 2B5
Fax 604 822 9703
Website www.pathology.ubc.ca
Find us on
   The University of British Columbia
About UBC
Contact UBC
About the University
News
Events
Careers
Make a Gift
Search UBC.ca
UBC Campuses
Vancouver Campus
Okanagan Campus
UBC Sites
Robson Square
Centre for Digital Media
Faculty of Medicine Across BC
Asia Pacific Regional Office
Emergency Procedures | Terms of Use | Copyright | Accessibility