Institute of Dentistry
CENTRES
RESEARCH
STUDY
PEOPLE
CONFERENCES
NEWS & EVENTS
ABOUT US
CONTACT
EQUALITY & DIVERSITY
Institute of Dentistry    /    People    /    Adult Oral Health    /    Profiles
People home
Dean's Office
Adult Oral Health
Clinical and Diagnostic Oral Sciences
Centre for Oral Clinical Research
Oral Growth and Development
Dental Care Professionals
Dr Michael Cattell
Senior Lecturer in Dental Technology
Email: m.cattell@qmul.ac.uk
Telephone: +44 20 7377 7000 ext 46100
Room Number: Institute of Dentistry
Profile
Research
Publications
Profile
Dr Mike Cattell is a Senior lecturer in the Centre of Adult Oral Health, at Bart's and the London, School of Medicine and Dentistry. In 1994 he was awarded an MSc in Dental ceramics and worked in conjunction with the Department of Biomaterials/ Materials at Queen Mary (QM) and published extensively within the Dental Biomaterials field. He then went on to work in conjunction with the Interdisciplinary Research Centre in Biomedical Materials (QM) and the Department of Biomaterials and Tissue engineering at the Eastman Dental Institute and gained his PhD in 2003. This work included the synthesis and heat extrusion processing of novel leucite glass-ceramics and led to the patenting and commercialisation of a leucite glass-ceramic as a restorative dental material. He was previously a Senior Chief Dental Technician in Restorative Dental Technology with over twenty-five years’ experience and was awarded the TEC Diploma in Dental Technology and Sherring Lucas award prize (1984), and later an advanced Certificate in fixed Prosthodontics as his specialisation (1986). Managing a busy conservation laboratory and teaching has given him a vast technical knowledge/experience in a wide range of manufacturing techniques used in dental restoration construction, together with knowledge of functional dental occlusion, dental anatomy and the aesthetics of restorations. He was awarded the Certificate in Learning and teaching (2007) and is an Associate of the Higher Education Academy.
In 2012 Mike was a games maker and Lead responsible for setting up and running the Dental Laboratories for the Olympic and Paralympic games, providing all Dental prosthesis requirements for athletes, including a successful mouth guard programme. He was part of the Olympic and Paralympic games medical team who won the prestigious Nursing Times Team of the year award.
Dr Cattell teaches both undergraduate and postgraduate dental students and supervises MSc and PhD students in the faculties of both Dentistry and Materials. He is course director for the MSc in Dental Technology and a reviewer for several Dental and Scientific Journals including: Dental Materials Journal, Journal of Dentistry, European journal of Prosthodontics and restorative dentistry, British Dental Journal, Journal of the European Ceramic Society, Advances in Applied Ceramics: Structural, Functional and Bioceramics, Ceramic bulletin). He is on the board of the European Dental Materials society and is an International and National External examiner. Dr Cattell is also a consultant for industrial companies and has supervised several industrial projects. His research students has won numerous prices including: Drapers prize, Voco prize for Dental Biomaterials (IADR), Kulzer travel award (IADR).

Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe on YouTube
Site map
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy and cookies
Page maintained by Ben Audsley
Queen Mary University of London
Mile End Road
London E1 4NS
Tel: +44 (0)20 7882 5555
© Queen Mary University of London.
Edit Page
Close
We use cookies to improve your experience of our website. Privacy Policy