Skip to main content
Skip to Content
Toggle Search
About
Research
Study
International
Business
Alumni
Staff & Students
School of
Agriculture, Food and Rural Development
Newcastle University > Agriculture, Food and Rural Development, School of > Staff
Dr Andrew Hudson
Head of Microbiology, Food Quality and Safety, Fera
Email: andrew.hudson@ncl.ac.uk
Telephone: 01904 462768
Personal Website: https://uk.linkedin.com/in/andrewhudsonfoodmicrobiologist
Address: Fera Science Ltd. (Fera)
National Agri-Food Innovation Campus
Sand Hutton
York
YO41 1LZ
Background
Research
Publications
Andrew has a BSc (Hons) from Bristol University and doctorate from the University of Waikato in New Zealand. His initial foray into food microbiology was at the Meat Industry Research Institute of New Zealand producing predictive growth models for cold tolerant pathogens. Later, he joined NZ’s Institute of Environmental Science and Research Ltd (ESR) where he became the microbiology science leader in the Food Safety Programme based in Christchurch.
The main area of interest at ESR was the biocontrol of foodborne pathogens, particularly using bacteriophages. In government and industry-funded projects the phage team isolated, characterised and assessed phages for potential applications along the farm to fork continuum. In addition he was involved in research and consultancy projects in foodborne pathogens in general, but with particular focus on Campylobacter, pathogenic Escherichia coli, Listeria and Yersinia.
In 2015 he moved back to the UK to take up his present role at Fera as Head of Microbiology in Food Quality and Safety. He is a Fellow of both the NZIFST and the IFST. Andrew has published more than 90 peer-reviewed papers, reviews and book chapters on various topics in food microbiology, and is on the editorial board of three journals.





About
Alumni
Undergraduate
Postgraduate
Research
Business & Outreach
Staff
Staff by Role
Staff by Unit
Staff by Expertise Group
Staff Interviews
NU-Farms
NU-Food
Centre for Rural Economy (CRE)
Nafferton Ecological Farming Group (NEFG)
Farm Business Survey
News
Site map
Internal
School of Agriculture, Food and Rural Development
Agriculture Building, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 7RU, United Kingdom.
Telephone: +44 (0)191 208 6900 
Email web editor
Connect with us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Social media directory
University site index
Accessibility
Legal
Freedom of information
Photography Credits
Last updated 25 May 2017 © 2017 Newcastle University