Skip to main content
School of Social and Political Science
School Navigation
The University of Edinburgh
SOCIAL ANTHROPOLOGY
Follow us on Linked In
View our Twitter stream
Follow us on Academia.edu
Log in
SOCIAL ANTHROPOLOGY:
Search
Home
Study
With Us
News
Events
Research
People
Scottish Training in
Anthropological Research
Contact
Us
Alex Nading
Dr Alex Nading
Lecturer in Social Anthropology; Deputy Director, Edinburgh Centre for Medical Anthropology; Programme Director, MSc Medical Anthropology
4.10 Chrystal Macmillan Building
15a George Square
Edinburgh
UK
EH8 9LD
+44(0)131 651 5120
Alex.Nading@ed.ac.uk
Medical Anthropology, Environmental anthropology, Science and technology studies, Latin American Culture and Society
Guidance and Feedback Hours
Tuesdays 1500-1700, and by appointment
Guidance and Feedback Hours, Semester 2 2016-2017, Tuesdays 3-5 pm.  For appointments, please email me.
Background
As a medical and environmental anthropologist, I study the entanglement of human lives with the lives of nonhumans, particularly dengue mosquitoes, dengue viruses, and microbiota.  Since 2006, I have been doing ethnographic fieldwork in urban Nicaragua.  More recently, I have worked in the Caribbean and the United States.  All of my research deals in one way or another with the coproduction of bodies and urban environments.  I received an MA in the Anthropology of Development and Social Transformation from the University of Sussex, and a PhD in Anthropology from the University of Wisconsin-Madison.  
From January 2017, I will serve as Book Reviews Editor for Medical Anthropology Quarterly.
At present, I am involved in two research projects. 
The first draws on fieldwork I have been conducting since 2006 in Managua, Nicaragua, as well as new research on the emerging science of the microbiome—the bacteria and other creatures that live in and around human bodies.  Working with caregivers, hygienists, and policymakers in Nicaraguan homes and clinics, I am exploring how the global fight against antimicrobial resistance is taking hold amid a broader "environmental turn" in Nicaraguan  social policy.  Starting in June 2016, Josh Fisher (Western Washington Unviersity) and I will be leading a 3-year National Science Foundation-funded research project on this topic.  Read about it here.
The second project, funded by a grant from the Wenner-Gren Foundation, examines the relationship between cause and justice through a study of an occupational and environmental health epidemic.  In northwest Nicaragua, a new form of renal failure is killing sugar plantation workers.  Since 2000, roughly one-third of all deaths among men in the area have been attributed to "chronic kidney disease of non-traditional causes" (CKDnt).  My project traces the emergence of a popular movement that turned CKDnt from a local crisis into into a global health concern.  Despite the success of this movement, the precise causes of CKDnt are not certain.  As a disease for which there is no clear medical fix, CKDnt has created space for the poor to help shape global health agendas, and for global health scientists to rethink the social justice value of their research. Beyond global health, then, this project addresses a broader question: To what extent is a unified definition of cause necessary for doing justice?
My interest in environments and health began with my original research project, a study of community-based dengue fever control in urban Nicaragua.  The resulting book, Mosquito Trails: Ecology, Health, and the Politics of Entanglement, was published by the University of California Press in 2014.
For more on my research, and access to writing, please visit www.alexnading.com, or my academia.edu page.
Recent Publications
Forthcoming. Nading, Alex M. Orientation and Crafted Bureaucracy: Finding Dignity in Nicaraguan Food Safety. American Anthropologist.
2017. Neely, Abigail and Alex M. Nading. “Global Health From the Outside: The Promise of Place-Based Research,” Health and Place 45: 55-63.
2017. Nading, Alex M. "Local Biologies, Leaky Things, and the Chemical Infrastructure of Global Health," Medical Anthropology. 36(2). Ahead of Print, DOI: 10.1080/01459740.2016.1186672
2016. Nading, Alex M. “Evidentiary Symbiosis: On Paraethnography in Human-Microbe Relations,” Science as Culture 25(4): 560-581.
2016. Nading, Alex M. "Heat," Lexicon for an Anthropocene Yet Unseen, edited by Cymene Howe and Anand Pandian. www.culanth.org.
2015. Nading, Alex M. “Chimeric Globalism: Global Health in the Shadow of the Dengue Vaccine,” American Ethnologist 42(2): 356-370.
2015. Nading, Alex M. “Ebola, Chimeras, and Unexpected Speculation.” Invited article for Limn, Issue 5, “Ebola’s Ecologies”
2015. Nading, Alex M. “The Lively Ethics of Global Health GMOs: The Case of the Oxitec Mosquito,” BioSocieties 10: 24-47.
2014. Mosquito Trails: Ecology, Health, and the Politics of Entanglement. Oakland: University of California Press.***Honourable Mention, Society for Latin American and Caribbean Anthropology Book Prize, 2015.
2013.  Nading, Alex M. “Humans, Animals, and Health: From Ecology to Entanglement,” Environment and Society: Advances in Research 40(1): 60-78.
2013. Nading, Alex M. “’Love Isn’t There in Your Stomach:’ A Moral Economy of Medical Citizenship among Nicaraguan Community Health Workers,” Medical Anthropology Quarterly 27 (1): 84-102.
2012. Nading, Alex M. “’Dengue Mosquitoes are Single Mothers:’ Biopolitics Meets Ecological Aesthetics in Nicaraguan Community Health Work,” Cultural Anthropology 27 (4): 572-596.
Topics interested in supervising
I am interested in supervising students studying medical anthropology, the environment, science and technology, and any other areas related to my ongoing research. I welcome enquiries from students working in Latin America or elsewhere.
If you are interested in being supervised by Alex Nading, please see the links below for more information:
PhD in Social Anthropology; MSc (R) Social Anthropology
<p>Your browser does not support iframes.</p>
Richard Baxstrom
Tom Boylston
Francesca Bray
Janet Carsten
Jacob Copeman
Magnus Course
Jamie Cross
Stefan Ecks
Alexander Edmonds
Joost Fontein
Jamie Furniss
Ian Harper
John Harries
Naomi Haynes
Casey High
Lotte Hoek
Laura Jeffery
Tobias Kelly
Rebecca Marsland
Maya Mayblin
Alex Nading
Jeevan Sharma
Jonathan Spencer
Alice Street
Neil Thin
Dimitri Tsintjilonis
Home People Faculty Alex Nading
Terms & Conditions
Privacy and Cookies
Accessibility Statement
Freedom of Information Publication Scheme
Unless explicitly stated otherwise, all material is copyright The University of Edinburgh 2013-2015.