Skip to main content
CONTACT
APPLY
Boyer College of Music and Dance
ABOUT
ADMISSIONS
ACADEMIC PROGRAMS
EVENTS
COMMUNITY
ALUMNI
GIVING
MESSAGE FROM THE DEAN
OVERVIEW
Mission, Vision and Core Values
History
Awards and Recognitions
Accreditation
PEOPLE
Faculty
Administration and Staff
NEWS
FACILITIES AND TECHNOLOGY
DIRECTIONS AND MAP
CONTACT US
Daniel Matsukawa
Adjunct Faculty, Bassoon (Philadelphia Orchestra)
Departments:  Instrumental Studies
Contact: 215-204-9792
    Daniel Matsukawa has been principal bassoon of The Philadelphia Orchestra since 2000. Born in Argentina to Japanese parents, he moved with his family to New York City at age three and began studying the bassoon at age 13. The following year he won his first competition and was featured as a soloist performing the Mozart Bassoon Concerto with a professional orchestra in New York. He was a scholarship student of the pre-college division of both the Juilliard School and the Manhattan School of Music, where he studied with Harold Goltzer and Alan Futterman. Mr. Matsukawa went on to study at Juilliard for two years before attending the Curtis Institute of Music, where he was a pupil of retired Philadelphia Orchestra Principal Bassoon Bernard Garfield.
Mr. Matsukawa has been a recipient of numerous awards and prizes, including a solo concerto debut in Carnegie Hall at the age of 18. He was also featured in a Young Artist’s Showcase on New York’s WQXR classical radio station. Since then he has appeared as soloist with several other orchestras, including The Philadelphia Orchestra, the National Symphony, the New York String Orchestra under Alexander Schneider, the Curtis Symphony, the Virginia Symphony, the Auckland (New Zealand) Philharmonic, and the Sapporo Symphony in Japan.
Mr. Matsukawa is an active chamber musician and has performed and toured with the Marlboro Festival. The Philadelphia Inquirer praised him for “his lyrical gifts, expressive range, and refined sense of ensemble” in a performance at Marlboro. He was also hailed by the Washington Post in a review of a solo concerto: “As an orchestral player, Matsukawa can be relied on for a burst of rich maroon and dark crimson in the collective sound. His playing is elastic and agile and thankfully accurate. The same goes for his gentle, songlike account of the Weber Bassoon Concerto. His soft tones were full and even, his passage work liquid and delicate, his second movement like an aria and his last movement filled with a calm modesty in its virtuoso romp. He is an invaluable asset to the orchestra.”
Mr. Matsukawa performs and teaches regularly at the Pacific Music Festival and the National Orchestral Institute, and he has been invited by Seiji Ozawa to participate regularly with the Saito Kinen Orchestra. 
Prior to his post with The Philadelphia Orchestra, Mr. Matsukawa served as principal bassoon with the National Symphony in Washington D.C., the Saint Louis Symphony, the Virginia Symphony, and the Memphis Symphony. In 1998 he performed and recorded Shostakovich’s Symphony No. 7 as acting principal bassoon with the New York Philharmonic under Kurt Masur.  
Mr. Matsukawa also conducts regularly in Japan, including at the Pacific Music Festival since 2009. He has studied conducting privately with Otto Werner Mueller, who was the head of the Conducting Department at the Curtis Institute of Music.   
Boyer College of Music and Dance
Presser Hall
2001 North 13th Street
Philadelphia, PA 19122
(215) 204-8301 (phone)
(215) 204-4957 (fax)
boyer@temple.edu
Make this website talk
© 2017 Temple University. All rights reserved. Designed and Developed by Web Communications