Log in to MUSE
University of Sheffield crest
Hispanic Studies
Home > Hispanic > Staff > Staff Profiles
Menu icon
Main menu
Dr Pascale Baker
Honorary Research Fellow
E-mail: pascale.baker@sheffield.ac.uk
After an undergraduate degree in post-colonial literature at the University of Kent at Canterbury and an MA in Latin American Studies at Sheffield, I completed my PhD at the University of Sheffield in 2011 with a thesis on the representation of bandits and banditry in Latin America. My research has since been published with the University of Wales Press (November 2015) as Revolutionaries, Rebels and Robbers: The Golden Age of Banditry in Mexico, Latin America and the Chicano-American Southwest, 1850-1950. The book provides not only a fresh insight into individual bandits and bandit cultures in parts of Latin America, such as Argentina, Brazil, Cuba and Mexico, but also presents the argument that a ‘golden age’ of banditry took hold on the continent during the late-nineteenth century, in which, in the popular imagination, if often not in reality, bandits were transformed into Robin Hood figures, agents of social and political change against an unjust establishment. This view was expressed in oral culture — corridos (Mexico), payadas (Argentina) and literatura de cordel (Brazil)—as well as in literature, and the romantic image of the bandit patriot/freedom fighter/Robin Hood still survives today in Latin America in the continued veneration of Mexican revolutionary heroes such as Pancho Villa, and, latterly, narco-bosses such as Pablo Escobar in Colombia and El Chapo Guzmán in Mexico.
In addition to the monograph, my research has provided material for articles that have been published in peer-reviewed journals, as book chapters in edited volumes and, more recently, online, on such subjects as: the rise of Colombian women assassins; the Mexican bandit novel; Pancho Villa; and the Mexican Revolution. I am currently preparing articles on the continuation of the bandit hero-aesthetic in Mexico and Colombia and on the cross-cultural bandit Joaquín Murrieta. I have also contributed to literary dictionaries and encyclopedias with profiles of Latin American authors and their work. Most recently I have been asked to submit an article for a volume on the Latin American detective novel which will focus on the presentation of women and power in two narco-novelas. This will feed into my next book-length study on the cultural representation of female outlaws in Latin America from 1915 to the present day.
In the Department of Hispanic Studies at Sheffield I have taught extensively on undergraduate language and content modules at all levels. Some examples of these modules are: ‘Civilisation and Barbarism in Latin America’, ‘Popular culture in Latin America’, ‘Mexican Political Culture: From the Porfiriato to the Present’, ‘Introduction to Spanish and Latin American Literature and Culture’ and final-year Spanish translation. In the Department of Hispanic Studies at the University of Edinburgh I taught on two Honours modules: ‘History and the Writer in Latin America’ and ‘19 th -Century Spanish American Literature’. Currently, I am enrolled on the Edinburgh Teaching Award which involves reflective practice and critical research to improve teaching and, on completion, membership of the HEA.
Next year I will be teaching at the Institute of Lifelong Learning at Sheffield offering a module on the bandida in Mexican literature and popular culture.
Publications
Articles/ Book Chapters/Encyclopedia Entries
P.Baker, 2008. ‘Desperately Seeking Pancho Villa: Hero or Villain, Bandit or Revolutionary? Three contrasting literary perspectives on Villa which examine the tension between iconisation and historical reality’ in Memorias digitales del Congreso Internacional Dos Siglos de Revoluciones en México, Instituto de Investigaciones Históricas, UNAM, December 2008, pp. 1-16
P.Baker, 2008. ‘An Introduction to the Nineteenth-Century Mexican Bandit Novel’ in Vida Hispánica, Autumn 2008: 38, pp. 9-14.
P.Baker, 2010. ‘Gabriel García Márquez: Further Reading’ in Philip Swanson (ed.), The Cambridge Companion to Gabriel García Márquez, Cambridge University Press, August 2010, pp.196-200.
‘In Search of the Female Bandit in the Novel of the Mexican Revolution: The case of la Pintada’, Bulletin of Hispanic Studies, 89: 7, 2012, pp. 721-736.
‘Los de abajo: An early novela de la tierra?’ in Tilmann Altenburg (ed.) Imagining the Mexican Revolution: Versions and Visions in Literature and Visual Culture, Cambridge Scholar’s Publishing, Winter 2013, pp. 41-57.
http://www.c-s- p.org/flyers/978-1- 4438-5316- 3-sample.pdf
Layman Poupard Publishing (Gale/Cengage Learning), Contemporary Literary Criticism Yearbook 2015/16: Entry on Gabriel García Márquez.
The Literary Encyclopedia. Contributions on El laberinto de la soledad by (Octavio Paz) (published) and El Señor Presidente (Miguel Ángel Asturias) (forthcoming). April 2016.
‘Motorbike Murderers and Femmes Fatales: The Rise of the Female Assassin in Colombia’ (published), IASH: Dangerous Women Project (online), University of Edinburgh. May 2016.
‘Avenging Assassins: Women and Power in Rosario Tijeras by Jorge Franco and and La reina del sur by Arturo Pérez Reverte’ (submitted for edited volume with Rodopi on crime scenes in the contemporary Latin American detective novel). Forthcoming (2017).
Book Reviews
Monograph
Contact us
Information for visitors
Jobs
Support us
Students' Union
Current students
Staff
Facebook
Twitter
Snapchat
YouTube
Instagram
LinkedIn
Weibo
The University of Sheffield
Western Bank
Sheffield, S10 2TN
UK
Feedback
Privacy
FOI
© 2017 The University of Sheffield