Career Opportunities | Contact | Donate
School of
Allied Health Professions
School of
Dentistry
School of
Graduate Studies
School of
Medicine
School of
Nursing
School of
Public Health
LSU
Patient Care
Tuesday, June 20, 2017   9:11 PM    |   75°F
Home
About Us
Faculty
Residency
For Physicians
For Patients
Services Provided
Links
    Mark Welch, DDS
Assistant Professor Clinical
Director of Residency Program
  Dr. Mark Welch began his education at Tulane University in 1969 on an athletic scholarship, graduating with a bachelor of science in 1973. He then went on to study dentistry from 1973-1977 at Louisiana State University School of Dentistry. He earned his DDS in 1977, graduating as a member of the prestigious OKU dental society. Dr. Welch matched into his residency in oral and maxillofacial surgery at Charity Hospital, graduating in 1980 and becoming board certified in 1984. He entered private practice with his partner Dr. Randolph Malloy in Lafayette, LA and practiced a full scope private practice from 1980-2010. Throughout this time period he retained academic affiliations with the oral surgery residency in New Orleans and was a part time faculty member for the duration. After leaving private practice he returned to become a full time faculty member at LSU. Dr. Welch is currently serving at Director of the OMFS Residency Program.  He has a wife Conni and two daughers, Jennie and Carley as well as five beautiful grandchildren. In his spare time Dr. Welch enjoys playing the guitar, which he has excelled at since the age of nine.
  Dr. Welch was born in Kansas, been in Louisiana since 1965.  He received his Bachelor of Science Degree at Tulane University in 1973.  He received his Doctor of Dental Surgery from LSU School of Dentistry in 1977.  His honor societies included O.K.U., and C. Edmund Kells.  He then completed his residency in Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery from LSU School of Dentistry and Charity Hospital in 1980.  Dr. Welch is a diplomat of American Board of Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery.  He is also a member of the American Association of Oral & Maxillofacial Surgeons, American College of Oral & Maxillofacial Surgeons and International College of Maxillofacial Surgery.
  Dr. Welch was in private practice in Lafayette, Louisiana from 1980-2009 practicing in full scope in Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery with emphasis on orthognathic and temporomandibular modalities.  He was part time faculty at the LSU School of Dentistry in Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery from 2002 and then became full time appointment with the school and is ranked as Assistant Professor with teaching responsibilities of resident supervision in surgery and Advanced Oral Surgery for the dental students.
  Dr. Welch is married to Conni and has two children and three grandchildren.  He enjoys playing the guitar during his spare time.
          Sign In
Disclaimer
© 2017 LSUHSC-NO
Privacy Policy