Skip to main content
PSYCHOLOGY & NEUROSCIENCE
About
Resources
News
Search
Research
Child Studies
Undergraduate
Majors & Minors
»
Requirements
»
Psychology AB
Psychology BS
Psychology Minor
Bruner and Zener Awards
Graduation with Distinction
Independent Study and Other Research Opportunities
Summer Vertical Integration Program (VIP)
Student Organizations
Graduate School Advice
Graduation Ceremony
Forms
Internship and Job Postings
Courses
»
All Courses
Fall 2017
Spring 2017
Research Participation Requirement
Graduate
Prospective Students
»
How to Apply
»
Admitting Faculty
Application FAQ
Financial Support
Placements
Teaching Opportunities
Ph.D. Requirements
»
Clinical Psychology
Cognition and Cognitive Neuroscience
Developmental Psychology
Social Psychology
Systems and Integrative Neuroscience
Graduate Life
Current Students
»
Departmental Graduate Requirements
MAP/Dissertation/Committee Page
Awards for Current Students
Teaching Resources
People
Primary Faculty
Joint Graduate Training Faculty
Secondary Faculty
Emeritus Faculty
Staff
Graduate Students
Postdocs and Research Scientists
Events
Alumni & Giving
Dissertation Archive
Faculty in the News
Children understand cooperative concepts earlier...
May 25, 2017
The ability to engage in joint actions is a critical step toward becoming a... read more »
Michael Tomasello Elected to National Academy of...
May 2, 2017
Please join P&N in congratulating Michael Tomasello for his election to the... read more »
Rick Hoyle wins Duke University's 2017...
May 1, 2017
Congratulations to P&N Professor Rick Hoyle, who was named the 2017 faculty... read more »
Tomasello Elected to American Academy of Arts and...
April 13, 2017
Congratulations to P&N Professor Michael Tomasello, who has been elected to... read more »
Welcome Bridgette Martin Hard
March 31, 2017
Duke's Department of Psychology & Neuroscience welcomes Dr. Bridgette... read more »
P&N researchers pinpoint brain structure that...
January 27, 2017
New research from the Tobias Egner Lab ... read more »
Makeba Wilbourn honored by President Obama,...
January 11, 2017
Congratulations to P&N's Makeba Wilbourn, who has received the Presidential... read more »
Tomasello Study a Top Breakthrough of 2016
December 30, 2016
Congratulations to P&N Professor Mike Tomasello and his colleagues, whose... read more »
Job Opening: SINS Faculty Position
November 8, 2016
The Department of Psychology &... read more »
Job Opening: Assistant Professor of the Practice
November 3, 2016
Duke University, Durham, North Carolina.... read more »
Who is White?
October 25, 2016
The latest episode of the Sanford School's... read more »
Mapping Emotions in the Brain
October 13, 2016
Work by P&N's Kevin LaBar and colleagues is featured as... read more »
Apes Understand That Some Things are All in Your...
October 12, 2016
P&N's  Mike Tomasello co-authors a study demonstrating that great apes... read more »
Welcome Gregory Samanez-Larkin
October 11, 2016
The Department welcomes Gregory Samanez-Larkin, who will be joining P&N as... read more »
Elika Bergelson kicks off CCN Colloquium Series
August 30, 2016
New P&N faculty member Elika Bergelson  kicks off CCN's colloquium series ... read more »
Welcome New P&N Faculty
August 26, 2016
P&N welcomes our four new faculty members in 2016:... read more »
Primary Faculty
Steven R. Asher
Professor of Psychology and Neuroscience
asher@duke.edu
Peer relations, friendship, social competence, social cognition, loneliness
Gary G. Bennett
Bishop-MacDermott Family Professor of Psychology and Neuroscience
gary.bennett@duke.edu
Obesity, digital health, mHealth, intervention, medically vulnerable populations, population health, dissemination
Elika Bergelson
Assistant Professor of Psychology and Neuroscience
elika.bergelson@duke.edu
Language acquisition, word learning, cognitive development, psycholinguistics
Roberto Cabeza
Professor of Psychology and Neuroscience
cabeza@duke.edu
Episodic memory, semantic memory, visual memory, attention effects on memory, healthy aging, Alzheimer's Disease, fMRI, TMS, cognitive neuroscience
Avshalom Caspi
Edward M. Arnett Professor of Psychology and Neuroscience in Trinity College of Arts and Sciences
avshalom.caspi@duke.edu
Development, epidemiology, genetics, health inequalities, personality
Harris M. Cooper
Hugo L. Blomquist Professor of Psychology and Neuroscience in Trinity College of Arts and Sciences
cooperh@duke.edu
Research synthesis and meta-analysis, research methods and ethics, education policy
Ruth S. Day
Associate Professor of Psychology and Neuroscience
ruthday@duke.edu
Everyday cognition, medical cognition, psychology and law, memory for movement, education
Tobias Egner
Associate Professor of Psychology and Neuroscience
tobias.egner@duke.edu
Cognitive control, memory, attention, predictive coding, neuroimaging, neurostimulation
Sarah E. Gaither
Assistant Professor of Psychology and Neuroscience
sarah.gaither@duke.edu
biracial and social identities, interracial interactions, racial categorizations, social development
Christina Grimes
Assistant Professor of the Practice in the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience
cgrimes@duke.edu
Peer relationships, social competence, aggression, adolescent social networks, early substance abuse
Jennifer M. Groh
Professor of Psychology and Neuroscience
Perception, Vision, Hearing, Neuroscience, Space, brain stimulation
Ahmad Hariri
Professor of Psychology and Neuroscience
ahmad.hariri@duke.edu
Neuroscience, genetics, psychopathology risk, individual differences
Rick Hoyle
Professor of Psychology and Neuroscience and Director of Undergraduate Studies
rhoyle@duke.edu
Self-regulation, personality, adolescent problem behavior, research methods
Scott Huettel
Jerry G. and Patricia Crawford Hubbard Professor and Chair
scott.huettel@duke.edu
Decision making, neuroeconomics, behavioral economics, social cognition, executive function, fMRI
Kevin S. LaBar
Professor of Psychology and Neuroscience
klabar@duke.edu
Emotion, memory, fear, associative learning, brain imaging, psychophysiology
Mark R. Leary
Garonzik Family Professor of Psychology and Neuroscience in Trinity College of Arts and Sciences and Director of Graduate Studies
leary@duke.edu
Social motivation and emotion, self-reflection, self-relevant thought, self-compassion
Elizabeth J. Marsh
Professor of Psychology and Neuroscience and Associate Chair
emarsh@psych.duke.edu
Memory, learning, knowledge, metacognition, education
Warren H. Meck
Professor of Psychology and Neuroscience
meck@psych.duke.edu
Neuroanatomical and neuropharmacological basis of timing and time perception
Terrie E. Moffitt
Nannerl O. Keohane University Professor
terrie.moffitt@duke.edu
Developmental psychopathology, longitudinal cohorts, aging, neuropsychology, antisocial
Karen L. Murphy
Lecturing Fellow in the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience
karen.murphy@duke.edu
Neuroscience, movement, pain
Eve S. Puffer
Assistant Professor in the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience
eve.puffer@duke.edu
Global mental health, community-based interventions, family functioning, HIV prevention, child mental health
Martha Putallaz
Professor of Psychology and Neuroscience
putallaz@duke.edu
Children's social competency and relationships, parent and peer influences, aggression and peer rejection
Laura Smart Richman
Assistant Professor in the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience
Health, health behaviors, identity, stress, motivation, stigma, discrimination, social status, STEM
David C. Rubin
Juanita M. Kreps Professor of Psychology and Neuroscience
david.rubin@duke.edu
Memory, autobiographical memory, PTSD, Oral traditions, neural basis of memory
Gregory Russell Samanez-Larkin
Scholar In Residence of Psychology and Neuroscience
g.samanezlarkin@duke.edu
James Shah
Associate Professor of Psychology and Neuroscience
james.shah@duke.edu
Motivation, goal pursuit, social cognition, self-regulation
Kathleen J. Sikkema
Professor of Psychology and Neuroscience
kathleen.sikkema@duke.edu
HIV, global mental health, clinical psychology, community intervention trials, HIV prevention, global health, gender
Timothy J. Strauman
Professor of Psychology and Neuroscience
tjstraum@duke.edu
Self-regulation, depression, translational research
Margarita Lvovna Svetlova
Visiting Assistant Professor of Psychology and Neuroscience
rita.svetlova@duke.edu
Social development, moral development, empathy, prosocial behavior
Michael Tomasello
James F. Bonk Professor
michael.tomasello@duke.edu
Children, great apes, social cognition, communication, cooperation, social learning
Angela Vieth
Visiting Assistant Professor in the Department of Psychology & Neuroscience and Associate Director of Undergraduate Studies
azvieth@duke.edu
Self-regulation, personality, depression
Makeba Parramore Wilbourn
Assistant Professor of Psychology and Neuroscience
makeba.wilbourn@duke.edu
Development, gesture, early word learning, cognition and language, socio-cultural factors
Christina L. Williams
Professor of Psychology and Neuroscience
williams@psych.duke.edu
Effects of nutrients and hormones on the brain, neuroscience, development, estrogen, choline
Henry Yin
Associate Professor in the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience
hy43@duke.edu
Reward, action, goal, learning, habit, basal ganglia, brain, motivation
Primary Faculty
Joint Graduate Training Faculty
Secondary Faculty
Emeritus Faculty
Staff
Graduate Students
Postdocs and Research Scientists
Department Officers
Chair
Scott Huettel
Jerry G. and Patricia Crawford Hubbard Professor
B243E LSRC, Durham, NC 27708
(919) 668-5286
scott.huettel@duke.edu
Associate Chair
Elizabeth J. Marsh
Professor of Psychology and Neuroscience
212 Soc/psych Bldg, Durham, NC 27708
(919) 660-5796
emarsh@psych.duke.edu
Director of Undergraduate Studies
Rick Hoyle
Professor of Psychology and Neuroscience
417 Chapel Drive, 321 Soc Psych Bldg, Durham, NC 27708-0086
(919) 660-5791
rhoyle@duke.edu
Associate Director of Undergraduate Studies
Angela Vieth
Visiting Assistant Professor in the Department of Psychology & Neuroscience
242A Soc/psych Bldg, 417 Chapel Dr, Box 90086, Durham, NC 27708-0086
(919) 684-9678
azvieth@duke.edu
Assistant to Director of Undergraduate Studies
Whitney Edmister
Career Specialist
242 Soc Psych Building, 417 Chapel Drive, Durham, NC 27708
(919) 660-5719
whitney.edmister@duke.edu
Director of Graduate Studies
Mark R. Leary
Garonzik Family Professor of Psychology and Neuroscience in Trinity College of Arts and Sciences
306 Soc/psych, Durham, NC 27708
(919) 660-5750
leary@duke.edu
Assistant to Director of Graduate Studies
Pamela Smith
Program Coord
417 Chapel Drive, Box 90086--246 Soc/Psych Building, Durham, NC 27708
(919) 660-5668
pamela.d.smith@duke.edu
Business Manager
Cynthia Lamaster
Administrative Manager
417 Chapel Drive, 231 Soc/Psych Building, Durham, NC 27708
(919) 660-5718
cynthia.lamaster@duke.edu
Questions about your faculty profile? See the
Faculty Profile Content Checklist
  Department of Psychology & Neuroscience
417 Chapel Drive
Campus Box 90086
Duke University
Durham, NC 27708-0086
919.660.5716
psychneuro@duke.edu
Academics
Courses
Undergraduate Majors & Minors
Graduate Programs
Current Students
Student Organizations
Research Opportunities & Jobs
Graduate Students
Future Students
Undergraduate Majors & Minors
Prospective Graduate Students
Stay Connected
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
  © 2017 Duke University  |  Statement on Diversity & Inclusion
NETID LOGIN