  Division Home
Employee Login
PHS Directory
PHS Contacts
Site Map
Departments & SectionsSubmenu collapsed. Click to expand submenu.
PeopleSubmenu collapsed. Click to expand submenu.
Research
Publications
Education
Jobs
Community & LinksSubmenu collapsed. Click to expand submenu.
  Quick Links:
  Departments:
Division Administration
Biostatistical Sciences
Epidemiology & Prevention
Social Sciences & Health Policy
People:
All Faculty & Staff
infiNet Directory (Internal Only)
Faculty
Biostatisticians
Programmers & Network
Project Managers
SAS/Programmer Analysts
PHS Highlights:
 Conference Room Info
 Genetic Software Downloads
 RSC/DAU Assistance
 SNPDOC Search
 Statistical Power Calculators

    PHS Visitor Parking Info »
Psychiatry Grand Rounds
2017 Schedule »
Translational Science Inst
TSI Homepage »
Funding Opportunities »
Calendar of Events »
Service Request Form »
WFUHS Training
Training and development events calendar (Internal Use Only) »
WF Innovation Quarter
Read More »
  PHS Division Directory 
Carl D Langefeld , Ph.D.
Professor


Department of Biostatistical Sciences
Division of Public Health Sciences
Wake Forest University Health Sciences

Administrative Contact: Janet Davis
(VINE)
Room Number: 4415
Medical Center Blvd.
Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27157-1063

Telephone: 336-713-0013
Email: clangefe@wakehealth.edu
EDUCATION:
B.S. (Biology/Mathematics) Concordia University, Seward, Nebraska
B.A. (Education) Concordia University, Seward, Nebraska
M.S. (Ecology, Systematics and Evolutionary Biology), University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln, NE
M.S. (Applied Statistics) The Florida State University, Tallahassee, FL Ph.D. (Biostatistics) University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 
RESEARCH:
Dr. Langefeld is a statistical geneticist whose research focuses on the mapping of complex genetic traits. Such traits are familial, but their inheritance patterns appear to differ from simple Mendelian inheritance due to incomplete penetrance, sporadic cases, genetic heterogeneity, epistasis and gene-environment interactions. Thus, the magnitude of the genetic effect may be modest or masked by the complexity of the etiologic mechanism. The ultimate goal of this research is to assist in the isolation and cloning of disease-predisposing genes for the prevention and treatment of the disease.

Dr. Langefeld’s methodological research focuses on the development of association and linkage methods for the mapping of complex genetic traits. He has developed a class of regression-based tests for linkage asymptotically equivalent to the class of nonparametric linkage (NPL) tests developed by Whittemore and Halpern (1994; Langefeld and Boehnke 1999, Langefeld et al., In Press). The primary advantage of NPL regression is that it allows one to simultaneously evaluate the effects of multiple loci, their interactions and their interactions with environmental factors or other phenotypic characteristics. In collaboration with Cralen Davis, he has developed an extension of regression diagnostic methods that can assist in the identification of pedigrees who disproportionately contribute evidence for linkage at a particular locus or loci, or for whom a proposed model does not fit (Davis et al., In Press). In collaboration with Dr. Michael Boehnke (University of Michigan) and Dr. Linda Green (Wake Forest University, Department of Public Health Sciences),he has developed a test for linkage disequilibrium, the discordant alleles test (DAT), for when parental data are not available (Boehnke and Langefeld (1998). In addition to statistical genetics, he maintains a broad interest in biostatistics and, in particular, longitudinal data analysis and model validation (Miller et al., 1993, 1996). Dr. Langefeld was a finalist for the 2000 James V.Neel Young Investigator Award of the International Society of Genetic Epidemiology.

Dr. Langefeld has a strong interest in diabetes (type 1, type 2 andgestational) and its complications. He is a co-investigator onNIH-funded grants for type 2 diabetes (IRAS Family Study: Geneticsof Insulin Resistance, Mapping Genes for NIDDM Nephropathy inAfrican Americans) and systemic lupus erythematosus SpecializedCenter of Research (SCOR) in Systemic Lupus, Gene Mapping inSystemic Lupus Erythematosus), end-stage renal disease (Genetic Analysis of Human Hypertensive ESRD) and asthma (CollaborateStudies on the Genetics of Asthma). Dr. Langefeld is also involved inthe Finland-United States Investigation of Non- Insulin-DependentDiabetes Mellitus (FUSION) Study. 

  How to update your website profile and publications >>
  PHS 2016 Christmas Family
View 2017 Wish-list »
Upcoming Events
No upcoming events.

View all event calendars »
View all Seminar Calendars »

Goals of the 2017-2020 WFBMC Strategic Plan
For more information, please contact a PHS departmental administrator.

Click for larger view
 

  ©2017 Wake Forest University School of Medicine.   All rights reserved.