Skip to main content
The Experience
The Programs
Faculty & Research
Insights
Alumni
Events
Enter the terms you wish to search for.
Change lives. Change organizations. Change the world.
Faculty
Academic Areas
Awards & Honors
Seminars
Conferences
Recruiting
Publications
Books
Working Papers
Case Studies
Centers & Research Initiatives
Research Labs
You are here
Faculty & Research › Faculty › Francis J. Flynn
Professor, Organizational Behavior
+1 (650) 724-0312
Email
CV
Personal Website
FrancisJ.Flynn
The Paul E. Holden Professor of Organizational Behavior
Academic Area: Organizational Behavior
Additional Administrative Titles
Co-Director, Executive Leadership Development: Analysis to Action
Research Statement
Professor Flynn’s research focuses on three topics of interest: (1) How employees can develop healthy patterns of cooperation; (2) How the negative impact of racial and gender stereotyping in the workplace can be mitigated; and (3) How people can emerge as leaders and assume positions of power in organizations. His work bridges the fields of management and social psychology, leading to scholarly as well as practical insights on organizational life.
Bio
Francis (Frank) Flynn received his PhD in Organizational Behavior from the University of California, Berkeley. From 2000-2006, he served as an Assistant and then an Associate Professor at Columbia Business School, joining the GSB in September 2006. A winner of multiple teaching awards, Professor Flynn’s courses focus on leadership issues, particularly how young managers can learn to navigate complex political environments and build interpersonal influence.
s on the topics of employee cooperation, work group dynamics, and leadership in organizations. His articles have appeared in Administrative Science Quarterly, Academy of Management Journal, Academy of Management Review, Journal of Applied Psychology, Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin, Psychological Science, Strategic Management Journal, and Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, the discipline’s top research outlets. 
Professor Flynn has worked for the Department of Commerce in the International Trade Administration, the Institute for Business and Economic Development, and the Institute for Urban and Regional Development. He has provided executive education for various companies, including Bank of America, Boston Consulting Group, Box, Caterpillar, Cisco, Cooley, Facebook, Flextronics, Genentech, Goldman Sachs, Google, Hewlett-Packard, Intuit, Johnson & Johnson, Kaiser, LinkedIn, Logitech, Medtronic, Merrill Lynch, Microsoft, Morgan Stanley, Prudential, Standard & Poor’s, Symantec, Twitter, Yammer, Yelp, and Yahoo! – training that focuses on improving employee decision making and interpersonal leadership skills.
Show More
Academic Degrees
PhD in Organizational Behavior, UC Berkeley, 2001
MS in Business, UC Berkeley, 1999
BBA, University of Notre Dame, 1994
Academic Appointments
At Stanford University since 2006
Class of 1967 Associate Professor of Business, Columbia Business School, Columbia University, 2006
Associate Professor of Business, Columbia Business School, Columbia University, 2004-2006
Assistant Professor of Business, Columbia Business School, Columbia University, 2000-2004
Awards and Honors
James & Doris McNamara Faculty Fellow, Stanford GSB, 2013-2014
Publications
Journal Articles
Clarifying the Link Between Job Satisfaction and Absenteeism: The Role of Guilt Proneness
Francis J. Flynn, RL Schaumberg. The Journal of Applied Psychology. June 2017, Vol. 102, Issue 6, Pages 982-992.
A Helping Hand Is Hard at Work: Help-Seekers' Underestimation of Helpers' Effort
Daniel A. Newark, Vanessa K. Bohns, Francis J. Flynn. Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes. January 20, 2017, Vol. 139, Pages 18-29.
Here Is a Tip: Prosocial Gratuities Are Linked to Corruption
Magnus Thor Torfason, Francis J. Flynn, Daniella Kupor. Social Psychological and Personality Science. May 2013, Vol. 4, Issue 3, Pages 348-354.
Structure, Identity, and Solidarity: A Comparative Field Study of Direct and Generalized Exchange
Robb Willer, Francis J. Flynn, Sonya Zak. Administrative Science Quarterly. May 9, 2012, Vol. 57, Issue 1, Pages 119-155.
When Feeling Bad Leads to Feeling Good: Guilt-Proneness and Affective Organizational Commitment
Francis J. Flynn, Rebecca L. Schaumberg. Journal of Applied Psychology. January 2012, Vol. 97, Issue 1, Pages 124-133.
Do You Two Know Each Other? Transitivity, Homophily, and the Need for (Network) Closure
Francis J. Flynn, Ray E. Reagans, Lucia Guillory. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. November 2010, Vol. 99, Issue 5, Pages 855-869.
Who's with Me? False Consensus, Brokerage, and Ethical Decision Making in Organizations
Francis J. Flynn, Scott S. Wiltermuth. Academy of Management Journal. October 1, 2010, Vol. 53, Issue 5, Pages 1074-1089.
Psyched Up or Psyched Out? The Influence of Coactor Status on Individual Performance
Francis J. Flynn, Emily T. Amanatullah. Organization Science. July 20, 2010, Vol. 23, Issue 2, Pages 402-415.
Show More
Teaching
Degree Courses
2016-17
OB 110N: Savvy: Learning How to Communicate with Purpose
Our seminar is designed for students interested in improving their communication skills. Right now, you probably don¿t spend much time thinking about the way you communicate, nor are you likely, in the academic setting, to get much feedback on...
OB 206: Organizational Behavior
Building on the discipline of social psychology, this course helps you cultivate mindsets and build skills to understand the ways in which organizations and their members affect one another. You will learn frameworks for diagnosing and resolving...
2015-16
OB 206: Organizational Behavior
Building on the discipline of social psychology, this course helps you cultivate mindsets and build skills to understand the ways in which organizations and their members affect one another. You will learn frameworks for diagnosing and resolving...
Executive Education & Other Non-Degree Programs
Advanced Leadership Program for Asian-American Executives
Develop global leadership skills to advance your career as we focus on effective training for high-achieving Asian-American executives.
The Emerging CFO: Strategic Financial Leadership Program
Guide your organization through growth with innovative CFO training that blends financial expertise, strategic thinking, and leadership skills.
Executive Leadership Development: Analysis to Action
Learn to lead with confidence in this rigorous general management program for executives on the verge of achieving great things.
Executive Program for Women Leaders
Act with power, navigate the workplace, and take the lead with new strategies and tactics in this unique women’s leadership program.
Executive Program in Leadership: The Effective Use of Power
Develop a leadership style and an action plan tailored to your personal objectives that inspire innovation in your team, your company, and the world.
Executive Program in Strategy and Organization
Effectively diagnose and solve problems using proven frameworks for executing change in this multidisciplinary strategic management course.
Leading Change and Organizational Renewal
Leverage diverse research, proven methodologies, and design thinking for change management in this collaboration between Stanford and Harvard.
Stanford Executive Program: Be a Leader Who Matters
Learn to drive change, inspire innovation, and instill excellence at this six-week executive program packed with learning and leadership skills.
Stanford-NUS Executive Program in International Management
Explore international management, strategy, and leadership perspectives from both sides of the Pacific Rim with NUS Business School and Stanford GSB.
Show More
Insights by Stanford Business
written
Frank Flynn: Are People in Need More Generous?
November 12, 2014
Research examines how experiencing physical distress can impact charitable donations.
written
Frank Flynn: Does Status Affect How You Help Others?
August 4, 2014
Researchers find that the perceived status of those in need can be an important factor in determining how we help.
written
Frank Flynn: Are We Intuitively Cooperative or Selfish?
May 12, 2014
Research examines whether people are more naturally self-interested or cooperative.
written
Frank Flynn: What Makes a Happy vs. Meaningful Life?
February 27, 2014
Professor Frank Flynn looks at the difference between “happiness” and “meaning” in life –– and how these two concepts relate to being prosocial.
written
Francis Flynn: What Makes People Want to Help Others?
November 21, 2013
In his quarterly column, a Stanford professor of organizational behavior describes how group membership influences behavior.
written
Frank Flynn: Does “Group Membership” Influence Behavior?
November 18, 2013
A look at the work of some of our finest researchers on what spurs people to do something on behalf of someone else, what psychologists call “prosocial behavior.”
written
Research: Can Money Buy Happiness?
September 25, 2013
In his quarterly column, Francis J. Flynn looks at research that examines how to spend your way to a more satisfying life.
written
Researchers: If You Want a Favor, Ask and Ask Again
September 19, 2013
Why the people you least expect to help you are the ones you should approach.
written
Frank Flynn: Innovative Therapy for Teen Depression
June 12, 2013
This column takes a look at an innovative therapy for one of our society’s most serious problems: teen depression.
written
Research: There Are Big Benefits to Giving Your Time
February 21, 2013
A recent paper shows that helping others can actually make you feel like you have more time.
written
Frank Flynn: Giving the Gift of Our Time to Others
February 19, 2013
What spurs people to do something on behalf of someone else? This quarter’s column explores giving the gift of our time to others.
written
“The Gifts We Keep on Giving”
December 17, 2012
Professor Francis Flynn discusses research on giving away a present you don’t really want.
written
Francis Flynn: Why Do People Give Things Away to Strangers?
July 27, 2012
In his quarterly column, a scholar examines the social value of no-cash exchanges on Freecycle and Craigslist.
written
Frank Flynn: Supporting Equality in Education
April 30, 2012
Raising teachers’ awareness about students' help-seeking dynamics could be an important first step in supporting equality in elementary school education.
written
Why Feelings of Guilt May Signal Leadership Potential
April 13, 2012
Stanford GSB researchers find that how people respond to mistakes can be a "clue to who they are."
written
Frank Flynn: Gratitude, the Gift that Keeps on Giving
March 1, 2012
Research findings suggest that when helpers are thanked for their efforts, the resulting sense of being socially valued is critical in encouraging them to provide more help in the future.
written
Give Them the Gift They're Expecting
September 15, 2011
Research shows that when it comes to gift giving, most people are simply not paying enough attention to what others want.
written
Frank Flynn: Those with Less Give More
June 20, 2011
Frank Flynn explores research showing that the most generous, trusting, and helpful people are not those with more money, but, rather, those with less.
written
Frank Flynn: Pay What You Want Pricing and Charitable Giving
January 1, 2011
Creating opportunities for “shared social responsibility” — among companies, charities, and customers — will stimulate prosocial behavior.
written
Frank Flynn: Getting People to Give — And Give Generously
November 1, 2010
This quarter’s column looks at how charities get people to give — and give generously.
written
Small Steps, Big Leaps Briefing: The Science of Getting People to Do the Right Thing
March 6, 2010
The Center for Social Innovation conference showcased how to use gentle nudges, subtle tweaks, and quiet prompts to summon better behavior.
written
Heidi Roizen: Networking Is More Than Collecting Lots of Names
November 1, 2009
The Silicon Valley master networker explains the importance of relationship building.
written
Research Confirms: It’s The Thought That Counts
December 1, 2008
Studies show that gift recipients are just as happy with small presents as with big ones.
written
Francis Flynn: If You Want Something, Ask For It
July 1, 2008
A study shows that we dramatically underestimate how likely others are to help us.
Show More
School News
written
New Executive Leadership Development Course for Emerging Leaders
November 29, 2011
Stanford Executive Education launches Leadership Development: Analysis to Action, aimed at high-potential executives and emerging leaders.
written
Gender-Related Material in the New Core Curriculum
January 1, 2007
To attendees at the WIM banquet, 2007 from Prof. Joanne Martin
Follow Stanford Business
Companies, Organizations & Recruiters
Stanford Community
Library
Newsroom
Contact Us
Visit Us
Jobs
MyGSB
Stanford Business Email
Your source for management ideas and insights, delivered to your inbox.
Accessibility Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Stanford University
Copyright © Stanford Graduate School of Business
655 Knight Way, Stanford, CA 94305