Skip to main content
Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics
search
Back to top
HomePeopleTudorita Tumbar
In this section
Tudorita Tumbar
Associate Professor
258 Biotech
(607) 255-6542
Email:
tt252@cornell.edu
Tudorita Tumbar was born in Romania in 1970 and obtained her Bachelor degree in Biochemistry from University of Bucharest in 1993. She then came to the United States for her PhD work in Cell Biology at University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Her post-doctoral training with Elaine Fuchs began at University of Chicago and continued at Rockefeller University. She is now leading her own research group in the Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics at Cornell University working on molecular mechanisms controlling cell fate of hair follicle stem cells.
Research Focus
Our laboratory is interested in elucidating the basic cellular and molecular mechanisms implicated in cell fate choice and stem cell activity within tissues. We use the mouse as a model system. An important focus is on the control of nuclear function and structure including transcriptional networks, chromatin structure and dynamics, and DNA replication. Understanding how progenitor and differentiated cells function in normal tissue morphogenesis and homeostasis will reveal how deregulation of their precise control of growth and differentiation can lead to diseased tissues and cancer.

Our laboratory focuses on adult stem cells and their interaction with their tissue of residence, and uses the mouse skin as a primary model system to address the general questions outlined above. Within the skin epithelia stem cells are thought to reside both in the outer epidermis and in a specialized area of the hair follicle called the bulge. The bulge is a stem cell niche thought to keep their potent resident cells in a differentiation and proliferation inhibited state. It allows external signals to selectively penetrate and instruct stem cells to migrate out and proliferate when they are needed: during the initiation of the hair follicle growth and in wounded, regenerating skin. The bulge area is marked by a profoundly quiescent population of cells, known to incorporate BrdU (bromodeoxyuridine) label in the newly synthesized DNA and retain this label preferentially relative to other cells in the skin, for extended periods of time during the animal adult life. These label retaining cells (LRCs) have been attributed stem cell potential for more than 20 years, not only in the hair follicle, but also in other tissues where they have been identified.

We have devised a novel technique to isolate LRCs from tissues based on their GFP retention. A pulse and chase with histone H2B fused with GFP, with expression regulated by the tetracycline inducible system, allowed us to label and isolate live LRCs from the hair follicle bulge. Using a genomic approach a large number of factors preferentially expressed in bulge cells were identified. A significant fraction of these factors were likely involved in the cross-talk between bulge cells and the surrounding environment, suggesting a possible role for LRCs in organizing the stem cell niche.
Teaching Focus
Tudorita Tumbar teaches on class on Stem Cell Biology (BIOMG445), with the objective to give students a general understanding of the concepts, terminology, and methodology currently used in stem cell biology. The possibility of using stem cells in various therapies will constitute a theme of the research papers. These are meant to offer students a realistic view of the current status of the field with respect to bringing basic research to the level of clinical application. This is an upper undergraduate and graduate level class that will allow students to acquire or practice skills in oral research presentations, as well as grant proposal writing and creative thinking. This class is not meant as a comprehensive survey of the stem cell field.
Additional Links
Department
Laboratory
Back to top
menu
RELATED LINKS
Tumbar Lab
APPOINTMENTS
Molecular Biology and Genetics AS
AREAS OF EXPERTISE
Hair Follicle Stem Cells
Stem Cells, Development, Disease
GRADUATE FIELDS
Genetics, Genomics and Development
EDUCATION
Doctorate
University of Illinois
2000
BS/MS
University of Bucharest
1993
© 2017 Cornell University
Secondary menu
College of Agriculture & Life Sciences
College of Arts & Sciences
CALS Help Desk
Service Request
Log in