Skip to main content
Apply Visit Contact People News Events
Search form
Search
Princeton University
Department
Faculty & Research
Postdoc
Graduate
Undergraduate
Core Facilities
Friends
Alexei V. Korennykh
Associate Professor of Molecular Biology
James A. Elkins, Jr. '41 Preceptor
Contact
akorenny@princeton.edu
609-258-6071
609-258-6730
Schultz Laboratory, 216
Korennykh Lab
Faculty Assistant
Anna Schmedel
Education
Ph.D., University of Chicago
B.S., Chemistry, Moscow State University, Russia
Research Area
Biochemistry, Biophysics & Structural Biology
Research Focus
Structural biology and mechanisms of signal transduction in stress and immune responses
Research
Selected Publications
Biography
Honors & Awards
Structural biology and mechanisms of signal transduction in stress and immune responses
Our goal is to understand mechanisms of RNA-dependent signal transduction in immune and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress responses. We use X-ray crystallography, biochemistry, biophysics and chemical biology to answer the following key questions: What are the structures of key regulatory proteins, signaling RNA and their complexes? What protein/protein and protein/RNA interactions are important and what roles do they play in signaling? Can we develop synthetic small molecules that modulate these interactions in vitro and in vivo? Can we use such small molecules as tools to understand and dissect the signaling mechanisms and pathways? Can we apply this knowledge to treat tumors and neurodegenerative disorders associated with these responses?
Unfolded protein response
Unfolded protein response (UPR) is a broad signaling network activated when cells cannot keep up with the demand for new protein production. The UPR is activated under diverse circumstances associated with stress and homeostatic imbalance. It is essential for embryo development, B-cell differentiation into antibody-producing plasma cells and uncontrolled proliferation of cancers, with a particularly strong causal connection in multiple myeloma. The entire UPR program involves 7-8% of all eukaryotic genes and is controlled by receptors that sense misfolded proteins.
The most universally conserved receptor of the UPR is a transmembrane protein Ire1. Ire1 has two enzymatic domains, a CDK2 kinase-like protein kinase domain and a regulated ribonuclease (RNase) domain that serves as the main signaling moiety. The RNase carries out a site-specific non-conventional splicing of a transcription factor-encoding mRNA to produce translationally active mRNA. This non-conventional mRNA splicing event is the key signaling point of the UPR and is completely independent of the spliceosome. We aim to understand the mechanisms of regulation and RNA recognition by Ire1.
RNA-dependent pathways in the innate immune system
Our immune system provides two layers of defense: innate immunity and adaptive immunity. The adaptive system can recognize pathogens with exquisite specificity via antibodies, but it responds relatively slowly due to the inherent lag of its feedback and amplification loops. The innate system mounts a less specific, but more rapid response to pathogens by directly recognizing their common attributes (pathogen patterns), such as RNA of viruses. RNA is the target of several receptors in the innate immune system, including protein kinase PKR and Toll-like receptors, which directly sense pathogen's RNA.
We are interested in understanding signal transduction by RNA and regulatory proteins that process or recognize RNA in innate immune response. We aim to gain detailed knowledge of important and presently poorly understood mechanisms, and have a far-reaching goal of being able to control them in disorders associated with aberrant immune signaling. Of particular interest are certain tumors, autoimmune and atopic diseases, including lupus erythematosus and asthma, as well as neurodegenerative diseases, such as multiple sclerosis.
Faculty
Research Areas
Faculty Publications
Research Labs
Open Positions
Lewis-Sigler Fellows
Connect with Mol Bio
Facebook Twitter
Department of Molecular Biology
119 Lewis Thomas Laboratory
Washington Road
Princeton, NJ 08544-1014
Need help? Contact us
Intranet Login
Explore
Graduate Program
Undergraduate Program
Summer Undergraduate Research Program
Research Areas
Molecular Biology Faculty
Faculty Research Labs
Publications
Core Facilities & Instruments
Confocal Microscopy
Drosophila Media
Electron Microscopy
Flow Cytometry
Histology
Imaging Facility at LSI
Laboratory Animal Resources
Macromolecular Crystallography
Nikon Center of Excellence
Proteomics & Mass Spectrometry
Sequencing & Microarray Core Facility
Synseq
Centers & Institutes
Center for Quantitative Biology
Glenn Center For Quantitative Aging Research
Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics
Princeton Neuroscience Institute
© 2017 The Trustees of Princeton University. All Rights Reserved.
Department of Molecular Biology